---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "Introduction"
const volume = "U"
const chapter = "1"
const reference = `${volume} ${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/use-of-terms/2"
const next = "/manual/29"
---
This is not a course in theoretical philosophy, nor is it 
concerned with precise terminology in connection with origins. It is 
concerned only with Atonement, or the correction of perception. 
The means of the Atonement is forgiveness. The structure of 
ʺindividual consciousnessʺ is essentially irrelevant, because it is a 
concept representing the ʺoriginal errorʺ or the ʺoriginal sinʺ. To 
study the error itself does not lead to correction, if you are indeed to 
succeed in overlooking the error. And it is just this process of 
overlooking at which the course aims. 

All terms are potentially controversial, and those who seek controversy will find it. Yet those who seek clarification will find it as well. They must, however, be willing to overlook controversy, recognising that it is a defence against truth in the form of a delaying manoeuvre. Theological considerations as such are necessarily controversial, since they depend on belief and can therefore be accepted or rejected. A universal theology is impossible, but a universal experience is not only possible but necessary. It is this experience toward which the course is directed. Here alone consistency becomes possible because here alone uncertainty ends. 

This course remains within the ego framework, where it is 
needed. It is not concerned with what is beyond all error because it 
is planned only to set the direction toward it. Therefore it uses 
words, which are symbolic, and cannot express what lies beyond 
symbols. It is always the ego that questions because it is only the 
ego that doubts. The course merely gives another Answer, once a 
question has been raised. However, this Answer does not attempt 
to resort to inventiveness or ingenuity. These are attributes of the 
ego. *The course is simple*. It has one function and one goal. 
Only in that does it remain wholly consistent because only that can 
*be* consistent.

The ego will demand many answers this course does not 
give. It does not recognise as questions the mere form of a question 
to which an answer is impossible. The ego may ask, ʺHow did the 
impossible occur?ʺ, ʺTo what did the impossible happen?ʺ, and may 
ask in many forms. Yet there is no answer; only an experience. 
Seek only this, and do not let theology delay you.

You will notice that the emphasis on structural issues in 
the course is brief and early. Afterwards and soon, it drops away to 
make way for the central teaching. Since you have asked for 
clarification, however, these are some of the terms that are used.