---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "The Holy Spirit"
const volume= "U"
const chapter = 7
const reference = `${volume} ${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/use-of-terms/6"
const next = "/use-of-terms/8"
---
Jesus is the manifestation of the Holy Spirit, Whom he 
called down upon the earth after he ascended into Heaven, or 
became completely identified with the Christ, the Child of God as She 
created Them. The Holy Spirit, being a creation of the one Creator, 
creating with Her and in Her likeness or Spirit, is eternal and has 
never changed. He was ʺcalled down upon the earth” in the 
sense that it was now possible to accept Him and to hear His Voice. 
His is the Voice for God, and has therefore taken form. This form is 
not His reality, which God alone knows along with Christ, Her real 
Child, Who is part of Her.

The Holy Spirit is described throughout the course as 
giving us the answer to the separation and bringing the plan of the 
Atonement to us, establishing our particular part in it and showing 
us exactly what it is. He has established Jesus as the leader in 
carrying out this plan since he was the first to complete his own part 
perfectly. All power in Heaven and earth is therefore given him and 
he will share it with you when you have completed yours. The 
Atonement principle was given to the Holy Spirit long before Jesus 
set it in motion.

The Holy Spirit is described as the remaining
communication link between God and Her separated children. In order
to fulfil this special function the Holy Spirit has assumed a dual
function. He knows because He is part of God; He perceives
because He was sent to save humanity. He is the great
correction principle; the bringer of true perception, the inherent
power of the vision of Christ. He is the light in which the forgiven
world is perceived; in which the face of Christ alone is seen. He
never forgets the Creator or Her Creation. He never forgets the Child
of God. He never forgets you. And He brings the Love of your
Mother to you in an eternal shining that will never be obliterated
because God has put it there.

The Holy Spirit abides in the part of your mind that is part
of the Christ Mind. He represents your Self and your Creator, Who
are One. He speaks for God and also for you, being joined with
both. And therefore it is He Who proves them One. He seems to be
a Voice, for in that form He speaks Godʹs Word to you. He seems to
be a Guide through a far country, for you need that form of help.
He seems to be whatever meets the needs you think you have. But
He is not deceived when you perceive your self entrapped in needs
you do not have. It is from these He would deliver you. It is from
these that He would make you safe.

You are His manifestation in this world. Your companions call
to you to be His Voice along with them. Alone they cannot be the
Helper of Godʹs Child for they alone are functionless. But joined 
with you they are the shining Saviour of the world, Whose part in its redemption you have made complete. They [Saviour] offer thanks to you as 
well as them [companions] for you arose with them when they began to save 
the world. And you will be with them when time is over, and no trace
remains of dreams of spite in which you dance to deathʹs thin
melody. For in its place the hymn to God is heard a little while.
And then the Voice is gone, no longer to take form but to return to
the eternal Formlessness of God.