---js
const title = "What is the body?"
const volume = "W"
const part = "2"
const parent = `${volume}${part}:261-270`
const chapter = "WIB"
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const themeNumber = "5"
const headerTitle = `${themeNumber}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: 0,
	title,
	parent,
	breadcrumbTitle: headerTitle,
	menuTitle: headerTitle,
	indexPageTitle: headerTitle
}
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const prev = "/workbook/p-ii/251-260/260"
const next = "/workbook/p-ii/261-270/261"
---
The body is a fence the Child of God imagines they has built to separate parts of 
their Self from other parts. It is within this fence, they think they live, to die as it 
decays and crumbles. For within this fence they think that they are safe from 
love. Identifying with their safety, they regard themself as what their safety is. 
How else could they be certain they remain within the body, keeping love 
outside?

The body will not stay. Yet this they see as double safety. For the Child of God’s 
impermanence is “proof” their fences work and do the task their mind assigns 
to them [fences]. For if their oneness still remained untouched, who could 
attack and who could be attacked? Who could be victor? Who could be their 
prey? Who could be victim? Who the murderer? And if they did not die, what 
“proof” is there that God’s eternal Child can be destroyed?

The body is a dream. Like other dreams, it sometimes seems to picture 
happiness but can quite suddenly revert to fear, where every dream is born. For 
only love creates in truth, and truth can never fear. Made to be fearful, must the 
body serve the purpose given it. But we can change the purpose which the body 
will obey by changing what we think that it is for.

The body is the means by which God’s Child returns to sanity. Though it was 
made to fence them into hell without escape, yet has the goal of Heaven been 
exchanged for the pursuit of hell. The Child of God extends their hand to reach 
their companion and to help them walk along the road with them [Child]. Now 
is the body holy. Now it serves to heal the mind that it was made to kill.

You will identify with what you think will make you safe. Whatever it may be, 
you will believe that it is one with you. Your safety lies in truth and not in lies. 
Love is your safety. Fear does not exist. Identify with love, and you are safe. 
Identify with love, and you are home. Identify with love, and find your Self.
