---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "Is Each One to be Judged in the End?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 15
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/manual/14"
const next = "/manual/16"
---
Indeed yes! No one can escape God’s Final Judgement. Who could flee forever 
from the truth? But the Final Judgement will not come until it is no longer 
associated with fear. One day each one will welcome it, and on that 
very day it will be given them. They will hear their sinlessness 
proclaimed around and around the world, setting it free as God’s 
Final Judgement on them is received. This is the judgement in which 
salvation lies. This is the judgement that will set them free. This is 
the judgement in which all things are freed with them. Time pauses as 
eternity comes near, and silence lies across the world that everyone 
may hear this judgement of the Child of God:

*Holy are you, eternal, free and whole, at peace forever in the Heart of God. Where is the world and where is sorrow now?* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

Is this your judgement on yourself, teacher of God? Do you believe that this is 
wholly true? No, not yet, not yet. But this is still your goal — why you are 
here. It is your function to prepare yourself to hear this judgement 
and to recognise that it is true. One instant of complete belief in 
this, and you will go beyond belief to certainty. One instant out of 
time can bring time’s end. Judge not, for you but judge yourself 
and thus delay this Final Judgement. What is your judgement on the 
world, teacher of God? Have you yet learned to stand aside and hear 
the Voice of Judgement in yourself? Or do you still attempt to take 
Her role from Her? Learn to be quiet, for Her Voice is heard in 
stillness. And Her Judgement comes to all who stand aside in quiet 
listening and wait for Her.

You who are sometimes sad and sometimes angry, who sometimes feel your 
just due is not given you and your best efforts meet with lack of appreciation and even contempt, give up these foolish thoughts. They are too small and 
meaningless to occupy your holy minds an instant longer. God’s 
judgement waits for you to set you free. What can the world hold out 
to you, regardless of your judgements on its gifts, that you would 
rather have? You will be judged, and judged in fairness and in 
honesty. There is no deceit in God. His promises are sure. Only 
remember that. Her promises have guaranteed that Her judgement, and 
Hers alone, will be accepted in the end. It is your function to make 
that end be soon. It is your function to hold it to your heart and 
offer it to all the world to keep it safe.

