---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "How do God’s Teachers Deal With Their Pupils’ Thoughts of Magic?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 17
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/manual/16"
const next = "/manual/18"
---
This is a crucial question
both for teacher and pupil. If this issue is mishandled, teachers
have hurt themselves and have also attacked their pupil. This strengthens
fear and makes the magic seem quite real to both of them. How to deal
with magic thus becomes a major lesson for teachers of God to
master. Their first responsibility in this is not to attack it. If a
magic thought arouses anger in any form, God’s teachers can be
sure that they are strengthening their own belief in sin and have condemned
themselves. They can be sure as well that they has asked for depression,
pain, fear and disaster to come to them. Let them remember, then, it
is not this that they would teach because it is not this that they would
learn.

There is, however, a temptation to respond to magic in a way that reïnforces it. 
Nor is this always obvious. It can, in fact, be easily concealed beneath a 
wish to help. It is this double wish that makes the help of little 
value and must lead to undesired outcomes. Nor should it be forgotten 
that the outcome that results will always come to teacher and to 
pupil. How many times has it been emphasized that you give but to 
yourself? And where could this be better shown than in the kinds of 
help teachers give to those who need their aid? Here is their gift 
most clearly given them. For they will give only what they have chosen for 
themselves. And in this gift is their judgement upon the holy Child of 
God.

It is easiest to let error
be corrected where it is most apparent, and errors can be recognised
by their results. A lesson truly taught can lead to nothing but
release for teacher and pupil who have shared in one intent. Attack
can enter only if perception of separate goals has entered. And this
must indeed have been the case if the result is anything but joy. The
single aim of the teacher turns the divided goal of pupils into
one direction, with the call for help becoming their one appeal. This
then is easily responded to with just one answer, and this answer
will enter teachers’ minds unfailingly. From there it shines
into their pupil’s mind, making it one with theirs.

Perhaps it will be helpful to remember that no one can be angry at a fact. It is always an interpretation that gives rise to negative emotions, regardless of 
their seeming justification by what appears as facts. Regardless, 
too, of the intensity of the anger that is aroused. It may be merely 
slight irritation, perhaps too mild to be even clearly recognised. Or 
it may also take the form of intense rage accompanied by thoughts of 
violence, fantasized or apparently acted out. It does not matter. All 
of these reäctions are the same. They obscure the truth, and this can 
never be a matter of degree. Either truth is apparent or it is not. 
It cannot be partially recognised. Who is unaware of truth must look 
upon illusions.

Anger in response to perceived magic thoughts is a basic cause of fear. 
Consider what this reäction means, and its centrality in the world’s thought 
system becomes apparent. A magic thought, by its mere presence, 
acknowledges a separation from God. It states in the clearest form 
possible that the mind which thinks it believes it has a separate 
will that can oppose the Will of God and succeed. That this can 
hardly be a fact is obvious. Yet that it can be believed as fact is 
surely so. And hereïn lies the birthplace of guilt. Who usurps the 
place of God and takes it for themselves now has a deadly 
“enemy.” And they must stand alone in their protection and make 
themselves	a shield to keep them safe from fury that can never be abated 
and vengeance that can never be satisfied.

How can this unfair battle
be resolved? Its ending is inevitable, for its outcome must be death.
How then can one believe in one’s defenses? Magic again must
help. Forget the battle. Accept it as a fact, and then forget it. Do
not remember the impossible odds against you. Do not remember the
immensity of the “enemy”, and do not think about your
frailty in comparison. Accept your separation, but do not remember
how it came about. Believe that you have won it, but do not retain
the slightest memory of Who your great “opponent” really
is. Projecting your “forgetting” onto Her, it seems to you
She has forgotten too.

But what will now be your reäction to all magic thoughts? They can but 
reawaken sleeping guilt, which you have hidden but have not let go. Each one says clearly to your frightened mind, “You have usurped the place of God. Think 
not She has forgotten”. Here we have the fear of God most starkly 
represented. For in that thought has guilt already raised madness to 
the throne of God Herself. And now there is no hope. Except to kill. 
Here is salvation now. An angry Mother pursues Her guilty Child. Kill 
or be killed, for here alone is choice. Beyond this there is none, 
for what was done cannot be done without. The stain of blood can 
never be removed, and anyone who bears this stain on them must meet 
with death.

Into this hopeless
situation God sends Her teachers. They bring the light of hope from
God Herself. There is a way in which escape is possible. It can be
learned and taught, but it requires patience and abundant
willingness. Given that, the lesson’s manifest simplicity stands
out like an intense white light against a black horizon, for such it
is. If anger comes from an interpretation and not a fact, it is never
justified. Once this is even dimly grasped, the way is open. Now it
is possible to take the next step. The interpretation can be changed
at last. Magic thoughts need not lead to condemnation, for they do
not really have the power to give rise to guilt. And so they can be
overlooked and thus forgotten in the truest sense.

Madness but seems terrible.
In truth it has no power to make anything. Like the magic which
becomes its servant, it neither attacks nor protects. To see it and
to recognise its thought system is to look on nothing. Can nothing
give rise to anger? Hardly so. Remember then, teacher of God, that
anger recognises a reality that is not there, yet is the anger
certain witness that you do believe in it as fact. Now is escape
impossible until you see you have responded to your own
interpretation which you have projected on an outside world. Let this
grim sword be taken from you now. There is no death. This sword does
not exist. The fear of God is causeless. But Her love is Cause of
everything beyond all fear and thus forever real and always
true.
