---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "What is the Peace of God?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 20
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const pageNumber = 20
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: pageNumber,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/manual/19"
const next = "/manual/21"
---

It has been said that there
is a kind of peace that is not of this world. How is it recognized?
How is it found? And being found, how can it be retained? Let us
consider each of these questions separately, for each reflects a
different step along the way.

First, how can the peace of
God be recognized? God’s peace is recognized at first by just one
thing—in every way it is totally unlike all previous
experiences. It calls to mind nothing that went before. It brings
with it no past associations. It is a new thing entirely. There is a
contrast, yes, between this thing and all the past. But strangely, it
is not a contrast of true differences. The past just slips away and
in its place is everlasting quiet. Only that. The contrast first
perceived has merely gone. Quiet has reached to cover everything.

How is this quiet found? No
one can fail to find it who but seeks out its conditions. God’s
peace can never come where anger is, for anger must deny that peace
exists. Who sees anger as justified in any way or any circumstance
proclaims that peace is meaningless and must believe that it cannot
exist. In this condition peace cannot be found. Therefore forgiveness
is the necessary condition for finding the peace of God. More than
this, given forgiveness there must be peace. For what except attack
will lead to war? And what but peace is opposite to war? Here the
initial contrast stands out clear and apparent. Yet when peace is
found, the war is meaningless. And it is conflict now that is
perceived as non-existent and unreal.

How is the peace of God
retained once it is found? Returning anger in whatever form will drop
the heavy curtain once again, and the belief that peace cannot exist
will certainly return. War is again accepted as the one reality. Now
must you once again lay down your sword, although you may not
recognize that you have picked it up again. But you will learn, as
you remember even faintly now what happiness was yours without it,
that you must have taken it again as your defense. Stop for a moment
now, and think of this: is conflict what you want, or is God’s
peace the better choice? Which gives you more? A tranquil mind is not
a little gift. Would you not rather live than choose to die?

Living is joy, but death
can only weep. You see in death escape from what you made. But this
you do not see—that you made death, and it is but illusion of an
end. Death cannot be escape because it is not life in which the
problem lies. Life has no opposite, for it is God. Life and death
seem to be opposites because you have decided that death ends life.
Forgive the world, and you will understand that everything which God
created cannot have an end, and nothing She did not create is real. In
this one sentence is our course explained. In this one sentence is
our practicing given its one direction. And in this the Holy
Spirit’s whole curriculum is specified exactly as it is.

What is the peace of God?
No more than this—the simple understanding that Her Will is
wholly without opposite. There is no thought that contradicts Her
Will yet can be true. The contrast between Her Will and yours but
seemed to be reality. In truth there is no conflict because Her Will
is yours. Now is the mighty Will of God Herself Her gift to you. She
does not seek to keep it for Herself. Why would you seek to keep your
tiny, frail imaginings apart from Her? The Will of God is one and all
there is. This is your heritage. The universe beyond the sun and
stars and all the thoughts of which you can conceive belong to you.
God’s peace is the condition for Her Will. Attain Her peace, and
you remember Her.
