---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "How Are Healing and Atonement Related?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 22
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const  headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
const prev = "/manual/21"
const next = "/manual/23"
---
Healing and Atonement are not related; they are identical. There is no order of 
difficulty in miracles because there are no degrees of Atonement. It is the one 
complete concept possible in this world because it is the source of a wholly 
unified perception. Partial Atonement is a meaningless idea, just as special 
areas of hell in Heaven is inconceivable. Accept Atonement, and you are 
healed. Atonement is the Word of God. Accept Her Word, and what remains to 
make sickness possible? Accept Her Word, and every miracle has been 
accomplished. To forgive is to heal. The teacher of God has taken accepting the Atonement for themself as their only function. What is there, then, they 
cannot heal? What miracle can be withheld from them?

The progress of the teacher of God may be slow or rapid, depending on 
whether they recognise the Atonement’s inclusiveness or for a time excludes 
some problem areas from it. In some cases, there is a sudden and complete 
awareness of the perfect applicability of the lesson of the Atonement to all 
situations. This, however, is comparatively rare. The teacher of God may have 
accepted the function God has given them long before they have learned all 
that their acceptance holds out to them. It is only the end that is certain. 
Anywhere along the way, the necessary realisation of inclusiveness may reach 
them. If the way seems long, let them be content. They have decided on the 
direction they will take. What more was asked of them? And having done what was required, would God withhold the rest?

That forgiveness is healing needs to be understood if the teacher of God is to 
make progress. The idea that a body can be sick is a central concept in the 
ego’s thought system. This thought gives the body autonomy, separates it from 
the mind, and keeps the idea of attack inviolate. If the body could be sick, 
Atonement would be impossible. A body that can order a mind to do as it sees 
fit would merely take the place of God and prove salvation is impossible. What 
then is left to heal? The body has become lord of the mind. How could the 
mind be returned to the Holy Spirit unless the body is killed? And who would 
want salvation at such a price?

Certainly sickness does not appear to be a decision. Nor would anyone actually 
believe they want to be sick. Perhaps they can accept the idea in theory, but it 
is rarely if ever consistently applied to all specific forms of sickness, both in the 
individual’s perception of themself and of all others as well. Nor is it at this 
level that the teacher of God calls forth the miracle of healing. They overlook 
the mind and body, seeing only the face of Christ shining in front of them, 
correcting all mistakes and healing all perception. Healing is the result of the 
recognition by God’s teacher of Who it is that is in need of healing. This 
recognition has no special reference. It is true of all things that God created. In 
it are all illusions healed.

When a teacher of God fails to heal, it is because they have forgotten Who 
they are. Another’s sickness thus becomes their own. In allowing this to 
happen, they have identified with another’s ego and has thus confused them 
[the other] with a body. In so doing, they [the teacher] have refused to accept 
the Atonement for themself and can hardly offer it to their companion in 
Christ’s Name. They will, in fact, be unable to recognise their companion at all, 
for their Mother did not create bodies, and so they are seeing in their 
companion only the unreal. Mistakes do not correct mistakes, and distorted 
perception does not heal. Step back now, teacher of God. You have been 
wrong. Lead not the way, for you have lost it. Turn quickly to your Teacher, and 
let yourself be healed.

The offer of Atonement is universal. It is equally applicable to all individuals in 
all circumstances. And in it is the power to heal all individuals of all forms of 
sickness. Not to believe this is to be unfair to God and thus unfaithful to Her. A 
sick person perceives themself as separate from God. Would you see them as 
separate from you? It is your task to heal the sense of separation that has 
made them sick. It is your function to recognise for them that what they 
believe about themself is not the truth. It is your forgiveness that must show 
them this. Healing is very simple. Atonement is received and offered. Having 
been received, it must be accepted. It is in the receiving, then, that healing 
lies. All else must follow from this single purpose.

Who can limit the power of God Herself? Who then can say who can be healed 
of what and what must remain beyond God’s power to forgive? This is insanity 
indeed. It is not up to God’s teachers to set limits upon Her because it is not up 
to them to judge Her Child. And to judge Her Child is to limit their [the Child’s] 
Mother. Both are equally meaningless. Yet this will not be understood until 
God’s teacher recognises that they are the same mistake. Hereïn do they 
 receive Atonement, for they withdraw their judgement from the Child of God, 
 accepting them as God created them. No longer do they stand apart from 
 God, determining where healing should be given and where it should be 
 withheld. Now can they say with God, “This is my beloved Child, created 
 perfect and forever so”.
