---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "Does Jesus Have a Special Place in Healing?"
const reference = "M-23"
const pageNumber = 838
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: pageNumber,
	title,
	parent: reference[0]
}
---


God’s gifts can rarely be received directly. Even the most advanced of God’s teachers will give way to temptation in this world. Would it be fair if their pupils were denied healing because of this? The Bible says, “Ask in the name of Jesus Christ.” Is this merely an appeal to magic? A name does not heal, nor does an invocation call forth any special power. What does it mean to call on Jesus Christ? What does calling on his name confer? Why is the appeal to him part of healing?

We have repeatedly said those who has perfectly accepted the Atonement for themselves can heal the world. Indeed, they have already done so. Temptation may recur to others, but never to these Ones. They have become the risen Son of God. They have overcome death because they have accepted life. They have recognized themselves as God created them, and in so doing they have recognized all living things as part of them. There is now no limit on their power, because it is the power of God. So has their name become the Name of God, for they no longer sees themselves as separate from Her.

What does this mean for you? It means that in remembering Jesus you are remembering God. The whole relationship of the Son to the Mother lies in him. His part in the Sonship is also yours, and his completed learning guarantees your own success. Is he still available for help? What did he say about this? Remember his promises, and ask yourself honestly whether it is likely that he will fail to keep them. Can God fail Her Son? And can one who is one with God be unlike Her? Who transcends the body has transcended limitation. Would the greatest teacher be unavailable to those who follow him?

The name of Jesus Christ as such is but a symbol. But it stands for love that is not of this world. It is a symbol that is safely used as a replacement for the many names of all the gods to which you pray. It becomes the shining symbol for the Word of God, so close to what it stands for that the little space between the two is lost, the moment that the name is called to mind. Remembering the name of Jesus Christ is to give thanks for all the gifts that God has given you. And gratitude to God becomes the way in which She is remembered, for love cannot be far behind a grateful heart and thankful mind. God enters easily, for these are the true conditions for your homecoming.

Jesus has led the way. Why would you not be grateful to him? He has asked for love, but only that he might give it to you. You do not love yourself. But in his eyes your loveliness is so complete and flawless that he sees in it an image of his Mother. You become the symbol of his Father here on earth. To you he looks for hope, because in you he sees no limit and no stain to mar your beautiful perfection. In his eyes Christ’s vision shines in perfect constancy. He has remained with you. Would you not learn the lesson of salvation through his learning? Why would you choose to start again, when he has made the journey for you?

No one on earth can grasp what Heaven is, or what its one Creator really means. Yet we have witnesses. It is to them that wisdom should appeal. There have been those whose learning far exceeds what we can learn. Nor would we teach the limitations we have laid on us. None of those who have become true and dedicated teachers of God forget their companions. Yet what they [teachers] can offer them [companions] is limited by what they learn themselves. Then turn to one who laid all limits by, and went beyond the farthest reach of learning. He [the one who laid all limits by, that is, Jesus] will take you with him, for he did not go alone. And you were with him then, as you are now.

This course has come from him [Jesus] because his words have reached you in a language you can love and understand. Are other teachers possible, to lead the way to those who speak in different tongues and appeal to different symbols? Certainly there are. Would God leave anyone without a very present help in time of trouble; a savior who can symbolize Herself? Yet do we need a many-faceted curriculum, not because of content differences, but because symbols must shift and change to suit the need. Jesus has come to answer yours. In him you find God’s Answer. Do you, then, teach with him, for he is with you; he is always here. <acim-org-link pagenumber={{pageNumber}} reference={{reference}}></acim-org-link>
