---js
const title = "What is the Resurrection?"
const chapter = 28
const prev = "/manual/27"
const next = "/manual/29"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const volume = "M"
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume
}
---
Very simply, the
resurrection is the overcoming or surmounting of death. It is a
reawakening or a rebirth, a change of mind about the meaning of the
world. It is the acceptance of the Holy Spirit’s interpretation
of the world’s purpose; the acceptance of the Atonement for
oneself. It is the end of dreams of misery and the glad awareness of
the Holy Spirit’s final dream. It is the recognition of the gifts
of God. It is the dream in which the body functions perfectly, having
no function except communication. It is the lesson in which learning
ends, for it is consummated and surpassed with this. It is the
invitation to God to take Her final step. It is the relinquishment of
all other purposes, all other interests, all other wishes, and all
other concerns. It is the single desire of the Child for the
Mother.

The resurrection is the
denial of death, being the assertion of life. Thus is all the
thinking of the world reversed entirely. Life is now recognized as
salvation, and pain and misery of any kind perceived as hell. Love is
no longer feared but gladly welcomed. Idols have disappeared, and the
remembrance of God shines unimpeded across the world. Christ’s
face is seen in every living thing, and nothing is held in darkness
apart from the light of forgiveness. There is no sorrow still upon
the earth. The joy of Heaven has come upon it.

Here the curriculum ends.
From here on no directions are needed. Vision is wholly corrected and
all mistakes undone. Attack is meaningless, and peace has come. The
goal of the curriculum has been achieved. Thoughts turn to Heaven and
away from hell. All longings are satisfied, for what remains
unanswered or incomplete? The last illusion spreads over the world,
forgiving all things and replacing all attack. The whole reversal is
accomplished. Nothing is left to contradict the Word of God. There is
no opposition to the truth. And now the truth can come at last. How
quickly will it come as it is asked to enter and envelop such a
world!

All living hearts are
tranquil, with a stir of deep anticipation, for the time of
everlasting things is now at hand. There is no death. The Child of God
is free. And in their freedom is the end of fear. No hidden places now
remain on earth to shelter sick illusions, dreams of fear, and
misperceptions of the universe. All things are seen in light, and in
the light their purpose is transformed and understood. And we,
God’s children, rise up from the dust and look upon our perfect
sinlessness. The song of Heaven sounds around the world, as it is
lifted up and brought to truth.

Now there are no
distinctions. Differences have disappeared, and Love looks on Itself.
What further sight is needed? What remains that vision could
accomplish? We have seen the face of Christ, His sinlessness, His
love behind all forms, beyond all purposes. Holy are we because His
holiness has set us free indeed, and we accept His holiness as ours,
as it is. As God created us, so will we be forever and forever, and
we wish for nothing but Her Will to be our own. Illusions of another
will are lost, for unity of purpose has been found.

These things await us all,
but we are not prepared as yet to welcome them with joy. As long as
any mind remains possessed of evil dreams, the thought of hell is
real. God’s teachers have the goal of wakening the minds of those
asleep and seeing there the vision of Christ’s face to take the
place of what they dreamed. The thought of murder is replaced with
blessing. Judgment is laid by and given Him [the Holy Spirit] Whose function judgment
is. And in His Final Judgment is restored the truth about the holy
Child of God. They are redeemed, for they have heard God’s Word and
understood its meaning. They are free because they let God’s Voice
proclaim the truth. And all they sought before to crucify are
resurrected with them, by their side as they prepare with them to meet
their God.
