---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "What are the Characteristics of God’s Teachers?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 4
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: "M",
	menuTitle: headerTitle
}
const prev = "/manual/3"
const next = "/manual/5"
---
The surface traits of
God’s teachers are not at all alike. They do not look alike to
the body’s eyes, they come from vastly different backgrounds,
their experiences of the world vary greatly, and their superficial
“personalities” are quite distinct. Nor at the beginning
stages of their functioning as teachers of God have they as yet
acquired the deeper characteristics that will establish them as what
they are. God gives special gifts to Her teachers because they have a
special role in Her plan for Atonement. Their specialness is, of
course, only temporary — set in time as a means of leading out of
time. These special gifts, born in the holy relationship toward which
the teaching-learning situation is geared, become characteristic of
all teachers of God who have advanced in their own learning. In this
respect they are all alike.

All differences among the
Children of God are temporary. Nevertheless, in time it can be said that
the advanced teachers of God have the following characteristics:

### Trust

This is the foundation on
which their ability to fulfill their function rests. Perception is
the result of learning. In fact, perception is learning because cause
and effect are never separated. The teachers of God have trust in the
world because they have learned it is not governed by the laws the
world made up. It is governed by a Power Which is in them but not of
them. It is this Power that keeps all things safe. It is through this
Power that the teachers of God look on a forgiven world.

When this Power has once
been experienced, it is impossible to trust one’s own petty
strength again. Who would attempt to fly with the tiny wings of a
sparrow when the mighty power of an eagle has been given them? And who
would place their faith in the shabby offerings of the ego when the
gifts of God are laid before them? What is it that induces them to
make the shift?

First, they must go through
what might be called “a period of undoing”. This need not
be painful, but it usually is so experienced. It seems as if things
are being taken away, and it is rarely understood initially that
their lack of value is merely being recognized. How can lack of value
be perceived unless the perceiver is in a position where they must see
things in a different light? They are not yet at a point at which they can
make the shift entirely internally. And so the plan will sometimes
call for changes in what seem to be external circumstances. These
changes are always helpful. When teachers of God have learned that
much, they goes on to the second stage.

Next, the teacher of God
must go through a “period of sorting-out”. This is always
somewhat difficult because, having learned that the changes in their
life are always helpful, they must now decide all things on the basis
of whether they increase the helpfulness or hamper it. They will find
that many if not most of the things they valued before will merely
hinder their ability to transfer what they have learned to new situations
as they arise. Because they have valued what is really valueless, they
will not generalize the lesson for fear of loss and sacrifice. It
takes great learning to understand that all things, events,
encounters, and circumstances are helpful. It is only to the extent
to which they are helpful that any degree of reality should be
accorded them in this world of illusion. The word “value”
can apply to nothing else.

The third stage through
which the teachers of God must go can be called a “period of
relinquishment”. If this is interpreted as giving up the
desirable, it will engender enormous conflict. Few teachers of God
escape this distress entirely. There is, however, no point in sorting
out the valuable from the valueless unless the next obvious step is
taken. The third step is rarely if ever begun until the second is
complete. Therefore, the period of overlap is apt to be one in which
the teacher of God feels called upon to sacrifice their own best
interests on behalf of truth. They have not realised as yet how wholly
impossible such a demand would be. They can learn this only as they
actually does give up the valueless. Through this they learn that
where they anticipated grief, they find a happy light-heartedness
instead; where they thought something was asked of them, they find a gift
bestowed on them.

Now comes a “period of
settling down”. This is a quiet time in which the teacher of God
rests a while in reasonable peace. Now they consolidates their learning.
Now they begin to see the transfer value of what they have learned. Its
potential is literally staggering, and the teacher of God is now at
the point in their progress at which they see in it their whole way out.
“Give up what you do not want and keep what you do”. How
simple is the obvious! And how easy to do! The teacher of God needs
this period of respite. They have not yet come as far as they think. Yet
when they are ready to go on, they go with mighty companions beside them.
Now they rest a while and gathers them [companions] before going on. They will not go
on from here alone.

The next stage is indeed a
“period of unsettling”. Now must teachers of God
understand that they did not really know what was valuable and what was
valueless. All that they really learned so far was that they did not want
the valueless and that they did want the valuable. Yet their own
sorting-out was meaningless in teaching them the difference. The idea
of sacrifice, so central to their thought system, had made it
impossible for them to judge. They thought they had learned willingness,
but now they see that they does not know what the willingness is for.
And now they must attain a state that may remain impossible for a long,
long time. They must learn to lay all judgment aside and ask only what
they really want in every circumstance. Were not each step in this
direction so heavily reinforced, it would be hard indeed!

And finally, there is a
“period of achievement”. It is here that learning is
consolidated. Now what was seen as merely shadows before becomes
solid gains, to be counted on in all “emergencies” as well
as tranquil times. Indeed, the tranquillity is their result — the
outcome of honest learning, consistency of thought, and full
transfer. This is the stage of real peace, for here is Heaven’s
state fully reflected. From here the way to Heaven is open and easy.
In fact, it is here. Who would “go” anywhere if peace of
mind is already complete? And who would seek to change tranquillity
for something more desirable? What could be more desirable than
this?

### Honesty

All other traits of
God’s teachers rest on trust. Once that has been achieved, the
others cannot fail to follow. Only the trusting can afford honesty,
for only they can see its value. Honesty does not apply only to what
you say. The term actually means consistency. There is nothing you
say that contradicts what you think or do; no thought opposes any
other thought; no act belies your word; and no word lacks agreement
with another. Such are the truly honest. At no level are they in
conflict with themselves. Therefore it is impossible for them to be
in conflict with anyone or anything.

The peace of mind which
the advanced teachers of God experience is largely due to their
perfect honesty. It is only the wish to deceive that makes for war.
No one at one with themself can even conceive of conflict. Conflict is
the inevitable result of self-deception, and self-deception is
dishonesty. There is no challenge to a teacher of God. Challenge
implies doubt, and the trust on which God’s teachers rest secure
makes doubt impossible. Therefore they can only succeed. In this, as
in all things, they are honest. They can only succeed because they
never do their will alone. They choose for all mankind, for all the
world and all things in it, for the unchanging and unchangeable
beyond appearances, and for the Child of God and their Creator. How could
they not succeed? They choose in perfect honesty, sure of their
choice themselves.

### Tolerance

God’s teachers do not
judge. To judge is to be dishonest, for to judge is to assume a
position you do not have. Judgment without self-deception is
impossible. Judgment implies that you have been deceived in your
companions. How then could you not have been deceived in yourself?
Judgment implies a lack of trust, and trust remains the bed-rock of
the teacher of God’s whole thought system. Let this be lost, and
all their learning goes. Without judgment are all things equally
acceptable, for who could judge otherwise? Without judgment are all
people companions, for who is there who stands apart? Judgment destroys
honesty and shatters trust. No teacher of God can judge and hope to
learn.

### Gentleness

Harm is impossible for
God’s teachers. They can neither harm nor be harmed. Harm is the
outcome of judgment. It is the dishonest act that follows a dishonest
thought. It is a verdict of guilt upon a companion and therefore on
one’s self. It is the end of peace and the denial of learning. It
demonstrates the absence of God’s curriculum and its replacement
by insanity. No teacher of God but must learn — and fairly early
in their training — that harmfulness completely obliterates their
function from their awareness. It will make them confused, fearful,
angry, and suspicious. It will make the Holy Spirit’s lessons
impossible to learn. Nor can God’s Teacher be heard at all except
by those who realise that harm can actually achieve nothing. No gain
can come of it.

Therefore God’s
teachers are wholly gentle. They need the strength of gentleness, for
it is in this that the function of salvation becomes easy. To those
who would do harm, it is impossible. To those to whom harm has no
meaning, it is merely natural. What choice but this has meaning to
the sane? Who chooses hell when they perceive a way to Heaven? And who
would choose the weakness that must come from harm in place of the
unfailing, all-encompassing, and limitless strength of gentleness?
The might of God’s teachers lies in their gentleness, for they
have understood their evil thoughts came neither from God’s Child 
nor their Creator. Thus did they join their thoughts with Her Who is
their Source. And so their will, which always was Her own, is free to
be itself.

### Joy

Joy is the inevitable
result of gentleness. Gentleness means that fear is now impossible,
and what could come to interfere with joy? The open hands of
gentleness are always filled. The gentle have no pain. They cannot
suffer. Why would they not be joyous? They are sure they are beloved
and must be safe. Joy goes with gentleness as surely as grief attends
attack. God’s teachers trust in Her. And they are sure Her
Teacher goes before them, making sure no harm can come to them. They
hold Her gifts and follow in Her way because God’s Voice directs
them in all things. Joy is their song of thanks. And Christ looks
down on them in thanks as well. His need of them is just as great as
theirs of Him. How joyous it is to share the purpose of
salvation!

### Defenselessness

God’s teachers have
learned how to be simple. They have no dreams that need defense
against the truth. They do not try to make themselves. Their joy
comes from their understanding Who created them. And does what God
created need defense? No one can become an advanced teacher of God
until they fully understand that defenses are but the foolish
guardians of mad illusions. The more grotesque the dream, the fiercer
and more powerful its defenses seem to be. Yet when the teacher of
God finally agrees to look past them, they find nothing was there.
Slowly at first, they let themself be undeceived. But they learn faster
as their trust increases. It is not danger that comes when defenses are
laid down. It is safety. It is peace. It is joy. And it is God.

### Generosity

The term generosity has
special meaning to the teacher of God. It is not the usual meaning of
the word; in fact, it is a meaning that must be learned and learned
very carefully. Like all the other attributes of God’s teachers,
this one rests ultimately on trust, for without trust, no one can be
generous in the true sense. To the world, generosity means
“giving away” in the sense of “giving up”. To the
teachers of God, it means “giving away” in order to keep.
This has been emphasized throughout the text and the workbook, but it
is perhaps more alien to the thinking of the world than many other
ideas in our curriculum. Its greater strangeness lies merely in the
obviousness of its reversal of the world’s thinking. In the
clearest way possible and at the simplest of levels, the word means
the exact opposite to the teachers of God and to the world.

The teacher of God is
generous out of self-interest. This does not refer, however, to the
self the world speaks of. The teacher of God does not want anything
they cannot give away because they realise it would be valueless to them
by definition. What would they want it for? They could only lose because
of it. They could not gain. Therefore they does not seek what only they
could keep because that is a guarantee of loss. They do not want to
suffer. Why should they ensure themselves pain? But they do want to keep
for themselves all things that are of God and therefore for Her Child.
These are the things that belong to them. These they can give away in
true generosity, protecting them forever for themselves.

### Patience

Those who are certain of
the outcome can afford to wait, and wait without anxiety. Patience is
natural to the teachers of God. All they see is certain outcome, at a
time perhaps unknown as yet but not in doubt. The time will be as
right as is the answer. And this is true for everything that happens
now or in the future. The past as well held no mistakes — nothing
that did not serve to benefit the world as well as them to whom it
seemed to happen. Perhaps it was not understood at the time. Even so,
teachers of God are willing to reconsider all their past decisions if
they are causing pain to anyone. Patience is natural to those who
trust. Sure of the ultimate interpretation of all things in time, no
outcome already seen or yet to come can cause them fear.

### Faithfulness

The extent of teachers
of God’s faithfulness is the measure of their advancement in the
curriculum. Do they still select some aspects of their life to bring to
their learning while keeping others apart? If so, their advancement is
limited and their trust not yet firmly established. Faithfulness is the
teacher of God’s trust in the Word of God to set all things
right — not some but all. Generally, their faithfulness begins by
resting on just some problems, remaining carefully limited for a
time. To give up all problems to one Answer is to reverse the
thinking of the world entirely. And that alone is faithfulness.
Nothing but that really deserves the name. Yet each degree, however
small, is worth achieving. Readiness, as the text notes, is not
mastery.

True faithfulness, however,
does not deviate. Being consistent, it is wholly honest. Being
unswerving, it is full of trust. Being based on fearlessness, it is
gentle. Being certain it is joyous, and being confident, it is
tolerant. Defenselessness attends it naturally, and joy is its
condition. Faithfulness, then, combines in itself the other
attributes of God’s teachers. It implies acceptance of the Word
of God and Her definition of Her Child. It is to them that faithfulness
in the true sense is always directed. Toward them it looks, seeking
until it finds. And having found, it rests in quiet certainty on that
alone to which all faithfulness is due.

### Open-Mindedness

The centrality of open-mindedness, perhaps the last of the attributes the teacher of God acquires, is easily understood when its relation to forgiveness is recognized. Open-mindedness comes with lack of judgment. As judgment shuts the mind against God’s Teacher, so open-mindedness invites Him to come in. As condemnation judges the Child of God as evil, so open-mindedness permits them to be judged by the Voice for God on Her behalf. As the projection of guilt upon them would send them to hell, so open-mindedness lets Christ’s image be projected on them. Only the open-minded can be at peace, for they alone see reason for it.

How do the open-minded forgive? They have let go all things that would prevent forgiveness. They have in truth abandoned the world and let it be restored to them in newness and in joy so glorious they could never have conceived of such a change. Nothing is now as it was formerly. Nothing but sparkles now which seemed so dull and lifeless before. And above all are all things welcoming, for threat is gone. No clouds remain to hide the face of Christ. Now is the goal achieved. Forgiveness is the final goal of the curriculum. It paves the way for what goes far beyond all learning. The curriculum makes no effort to exceed its legitimate goal. Forgiveness is its single aim at which all learning ultimately converges. It is indeed enough.

You may have noticed that
the list of attributes of God’s teachers does not include those
things which are the Child of God’s inheritance. Terms like love,
sinlessness, perfection, knowledge and eternal truth do not appear in
this context. They would be most inappropriate here. What God has
given is so far beyond our curriculum that learning but disappears in
its presence. Yet while its presence is obscured, the focus properly
belongs on the curriculum. It is the function of God’s teachers
to bring true learning to the world. Properly speaking it is
unlearning that they bring, for that is “true learning” in
the world. It is given to the teachers of God to bring the glad
tidings of complete forgiveness to the world. Blessed indeed are
they, for they are the bringers of salvation.


