---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "How is Healing Accomplished?"
const volume = "M"
const chapter = 5
const reference = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent: volume,
	menuTitle: headerTitle
}
const prev = "/manual/4"
const next = "/manual/6"
---

Healing involves an understanding of what the illusion of sickness is for. Healing is impossible without this. 

### The Perceived Purpose of Sickness

Healing is accomplished the instant the sufferer no longer sees any value in 
pain. Who would choose suffering unless they thought it brought them 
something, and something of value to them? They must think it is a 
small price to pay for something of greater worth. For sickness is an election, 
a decision. It is the choice of weakness in the mistaken conviction that it is 
strength. When this occurs, real strength is seen as threat and health as 
danger. Sickness is a method, conceived in madness, for placing God’s Child 
on their Mother’s throne. God is seen as outside, fierce and powerful, eager 
to keep all power for Herself. Only by His (the Child’s) death can She be 
conquered by Her Son.

And what, in this insane conviction, does healing stand for? It symbolises the 
 defeat of God’s Child and the triumph of their Mother over them. It 
 represents the ultimate defiance in a direct form which the Child of God is 
 forced to recognise. It stands for all that they would hide from themself to 
 protect their life. If they are healed, they are responsible for their thoughts. 
 And if they are responsible for their thoughts, they will be killed to prove to 
 them how weak and pitiful they are. But if they choose death themself, their 
  weakness is their strength. Now have they given themself what God would 
  give to them and thus entirely usurped the throne of their Creator.

### The Shift in Perception

Healing must occur in exact proportion in which the valuelessness of sickness 
is recognised. One need but say, “There is no gain to me at all in this”, and 
they are healed. But to say this one must first recognise certain facts. First, it 
is obvious that decisions are of the mind, not of the body. If sickness is but a 
faulty problem-solving approach, it is a decision. And if it is a decision, it is 
the mind and not the body that makes it. The resistance to recognising this is 
enormous because the existence of the world as we perceive it depends on 
the body being the decision-maker. Terms like “instincts”, “reflexes” and the 
like represent attempts to endow the body with non-mental motivators. 
Actually, such terms merely state or describe the problem. They do not 
answer it.

The acceptance of sickness as a decision of the mind for a purpose for which 
it would use the body is the basis of healing. And this is so for healing in 
all forms. A patient decides that this is so, and they recover. If they 
decide against recovery, they will not be healed. Who is the physician? Only 
the mind of the patient themself. The outcome is what they decide that it is. 
Special agents seem to be ministering to them, yet they [agents] but give 
form to their [patients’] own choice. They [patients] choose them [agents] to 
bring tangible form to their [patients’] desires. And it is this they [agents] do, 
and nothing else. They  are not actually needed at all. The patient could 
merely rise up without their aid and say, “I have no use for this”. There is no 
form of sickness that would not be cured at once.

What is the single requisite for this shift in perception? It is simply this: 
the recognition that sickness is of the mind and has nothing to do with the 
body. What does this recognition “cost”? It costs the whole world we see, for 
the world will never again appear to rule the mind. For with this recognition 
is responsibility placed where it belongs — not with the world but on they 
who look on the world and see it as it is not. They look on what they choose 
to see. No more and no less. The world does nothing to them. They only 
thought it did. Nor do they do anything to the world because they were 
mistaken about what it was. Hereïn is the release from guilt and sickness 
both, for they are one. Yet to accept this release, the insignificance of the 
body must be an acceptable idea.

With this idea is pain forever gone. But with this idea goes also all 
confusion about creation. Does not this follow of necessity? Place cause and 
effect in their true sequence in one respect, and the learning will generalise 
and transform the world. The transfer value of one true idea has no end nor 
limit. The final outcome of this lesson is the remembrance of God. What do 
guilt and sickness, pain, disaster, and all suffering mean now? Having no 
purpose, they are gone. And with them also go all the effects they seemed to 
cause. Cause and effect but replicate creation. Seen in their proper 
perspective, without distortion and without fear, they reëstablish Heaven.

### The Function of the Teacher of God

If the patient must change their mind in order to be healed, what does the 
teacher of God do? Can they change the patient’s mind for them [the 
patient]? Certainly not. For those already willing to change their mind they 
[the teacher] have no function except to rejoice with them [patient], for they 
[patients] have become teachers of God with them [teacher]. He [the 
teacher]  have, however, a more specific function for those who do not 
understand what healing is. These patients do not realise they have chosen 
sickness. On the contrary, they believe that sickness has chosen them. Nor 
are they open-minded on this point. The body tells them what to do, and 
they obey. They have no idea how insane this concept is. If they even 
suspected it, they would be healed. Yet they suspect nothing. To them the 
separation is quite real.

To them God’s teachers come to represent another choice which they had 
forgotten. The simple presence of a teacher of God is a reminder. Their [the 
teacher’s] thoughts ask for the right to question what the patient has 
accepted is true. As God’s messengers, Her teachers are the symbols of 
salvation. They ask the patient for forgiveness for God’s Child in their own 
name. They stand for the alternative. With God’s Word in their minds they 
come in benediction, not to heal the sick but to remind them of the remedy 
God has already given them. It is not their hands that heal. It is not their 
voice that speaks the Word of God. They merely give what has been given 
them. Very gently they call to their companions to turn away from death. 
Behold, you Child of God, what life can offer you. Would you choose sickness 
in place of this?

Not once do the advanced teachers of God consider the forms of sickness in 
which their companion believes. To do this is to forget that all of them 
[teachers] have the same purpose and therefore are not really different. They 
seek for God’s Voice in this companion who would so deceive themself as to 
believe God’s Child can suffer. And they [teachers] remind them [companion] 
that they have not made themself and must remain as God created them. 
They [teachers] recognise illusions can have no effect. The truth in their 
minds reaches out to the truth in the minds of their companions, so that 
illusions are not reïnforced. They are thus brought to truth, and truth is not 
brought to them. So are they dispelled, not by the will of another but by the 
union of the One Will with itself. And this is the function of God’s teachers — 
to see no will as separate from their own, nor theirs as separate from God’s.
 