---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "9. What Is the Second Coming?"
const reference = "W-pII.9"
const pageNumber = 720
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: pageNumber,
	title,
	parent: "W-301–310",
}
const prev = "/workbook/291-300/300"
const next = "/workbook/301-310/301"
---
Christ’s Second Coming, which is sure as God, is merely the correction of mistakes, and the return of sanity. It is a part of the condition that restores the never lost, and re-establishes what is forever and forever true. It is the invitation to God’s Word to take illusion’s place; the willingness to let forgiveness rest upon all things without exception and without reserve.

It is the all-inclusive nature of Christ’s Second Coming that permits it to embrace the world and hold you safe within its gentle advent, which encompasses all living things with you. There is no end to the release the Second Coming brings, as God’s creation must be limitless. Forgiveness lights the Second Coming’s way, because it shines on everything as one. And thus is oneness recognized at last.

The Second Coming ends the lessons that the Holy Spirit teaches, making way for the Last Judgment, in which learning ends in one last summary that will extend beyond itself, and reaches up to God. The Second Coming is the time in which all minds are given to the hands of Christ, to be returned to spirit in the name of true creation and the Will of God.

The Second Coming is the one event in time which time itself can not affect. For every one who ever came to die, or yet will come or who is present now, is equally released from what they made. In this equality is Christ restored as one Identity, in which the Sons of God acknowledge that they all are one. And God the Mother smiles upon Her Son, Her one creation and Her only joy.

Pray that the Second Coming will be soon, but do not rest with that. It needs your eyes and ears and hands and feet. It needs your voice. And most of all it needs your willingness. Let us rejoice that we can do God’s Will, and join together in its holy light. Behold, the Son of God is one in us, and we can reach our Mother’s Love through Him. {% render "acim-org-link", pageNumber: pageNumber, reference: reference  %}
