---js
const title = "What Is the Second Coming?"
const volume = "W"
const part = "2"
const parent = `${volume}${part}:301-310`
const chapter = "WISC"
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const themeNumber = 9
const headerTitle = `${themeNumber}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: themeNumber,
	title,
	parent,
	breadcrumbTitle: headerTitle,
	menuTitle: headerTitle,
	indexPageTitle: headerTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-ii/291-300/300"
const next = "/workbook/p-ii/301-310/301"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
Christ’s Second Coming, which is sure as God, is merely the correction of 
mistakes and the return of sanity. It is a part of the condition which restores the 
never lost and reëstablishes what is forever and forever true. It is the invitation 
to God’s Word to take illusion’s place, the willingness to let forgiveness rest 
upon all things without exception and without reserve.

It is the all-inclusive nature of Christ’s Second Coming that permits it to embrace 
the world and hold you safe within its gentle advent, which encompasses all 
living things with you. There is no end to the release the Second Coming brings, 
as God’s creation must be limitless. Forgiveness lights the Second Coming's way 
because it shines on everyone as one.

The Second Coming ends the lessons which the Holy Spirit teaches, making way 
for the Last Judgement, in which learning ends in one last summary that will 
extend beyond itself and reaches up to God. The Second Coming is the time in 
which all minds are given to the hands of Christ, to be returned to Spirit in the 
name of true creation and the Will of God.

The Second Coming is the one event in time which time itself cannot affect. For 
everyone who ever came to die or yet will come or who is present now is 
equally released from what they made. In this equality is Christ restored as one 
identity, in which all Children of God acknowledge that they all are one. And God the Mother smiles upon Her Child, Her one creation and Her only joy.

Pray that this Second Coming will be soon, but do not rest with that. It needs 
your eyes and ears and hands and feet. It needs your voice. And most of all it 
needs your willingness. Let us rejoice that we can do God’s Will and join 
together in its holy light. Behold, the Child of God is one in us, and we can reach 
our Mother’s Love through them.