---js
const title = "What is the Christ?"
const volume = "W"
const part = "2"
const parent = `${volume}${part}:271-280`
const chapter = "WIC"
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const themeNumber = 6
const headerTitle = `${themeNumber}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: themeNumber,
	title,
	parent,
	breadcrumbTitle: headerTitle,
	menuTitle: headerTitle,
	indexPageTitle: headerTitle
}
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const prev = "/workbook/p-ii/261-270/270"
const next = "/workbook/p-ii/271-280/271"
---
Christ is God’s Child as She created Him. He is the Self we share, uniting us with 
one another and with God as well. He is the Thought Which still abides within 
the Mind That is His Source. He has not left His holy home nor lost the 
innocence in which He was created. He abides unchanged forever in the Mind 
of God.

Christ is the link that keeps you one with God and guarantees that separation is 
no more than an illusion of despair. For hope forever will abide in Him. Your 
mind is part of His and His of yours. He is the part in which God's Answer lies, 
where all decisions are already made and dreams are over. He remains 
untouched by anything the body's eyes perceive. For though in Him His Mother 
placed the means for your salvation, yet does He remain the Self Who, like His 
Mother, knows no sin.

Home of the Holy Spirit and at home in God alone, does Christ remain at peace 
within the Heaven of your holy mind. This is the only part of you that has reality 
in truth. The rest is dreams. Yet will these dreams be given unto Christ to fade 
before His glory and reveal your holy Self, the Christ, to you at last.

The Holy Spirit reaches from the Christ in you to all your dreams and bids them 
come to Him to be translated into truth. He will exchange them for the final 
dream which God appointed as the end of dreams. For when forgiveness rests 
upon the world and peace has come to every Child of God, what could remain 
to keep things separate, for what remains to see except Christ’s face?

And how long will this holy face be seen, when it is but the symbol that the time 
for learning now is over and the goal of the Atonement has been reached at 
last? So therefore let us seek to find Christ’s face and look on nothing else. As 
we behold His glory will we know we have no need of learning or perception or 
of time, or anything except the holy Self, the Christ Whom God created as Her Child.