---js
const title = "Your grace is given me. I claim it now"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:151-170`
const chapter = 168
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/151-170/167"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/151-170/169"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
God speaks to us. Shall we
not speak to Her? She is not distant. She makes no attempt to hide from
us. We try to hide from Her and suffer from deception. She remains
entirely accessible. She loves Her Child. There is no certainty but
this, yet this suffices. She will love Her Child forever. When their mind
remains asleep, She loves them still. And when their mind awakes, She
loves them with a never-changing Love.

If you but knew the meaning
of Her Love, hope and despair would be impossible, for hope would be
forever satisfied; despair of any kind unthinkable. Her grace Her
answer is to all despair, for in it lies remembrance of Her Love.
Would She not gladly give the means by which Her Will is recognised?
Her grace is yours by your acknowledgment. And memory of Her awakens
in the mind which asks the means of Her whereby its sleep is
done.

Today we ask of God the
gift She has most carefully preserved within our hearts, waiting to be
acknowledged. This the gift by which God leans to us and lifts us up,
taking salvation’s final step Heself. All steps but this we
learn, instructed by Her Voice. But finally She comes Herself and
takes us in Her arms and sweeps away the cobwebs of our sleep. Her
gift of grace is more than just an answer. It restores all memories
the sleeping mind forgot; all certainty of what love’s meaning
is.

God loves Her Child. Request
Her now to give the means by which this world will disappear, and
vision first will come with knowledge but an instant later. For in
grace you see a light that covers all the world in love and watch
fear disappear from every face as hearts rise up and claim the light
as theirs. What now remains that Heaven be delayed an instant longer?
What remains undone when your forgiveness rests on everything?

It is a new and holy day
today, for we receive what has been given us. Our faith lies in the
Giver, not our own acceptance. We acknowledge our mistakes, but She to
Whom all error is unknown is yet the One Who answers our mistakes by
giving us the means to lay them down and rise to Her in gratitude and
love.

And She descends to meet us
as we come to Her, for what She has prepared for us She gives and we
receive. Such is Her Will because She loves Her Child. To Her we pray
today, returning but the words She gave to us through Her own Voice,
Her Word, Her Love:

*Your grace is given me. I claim it now. Mother, I come to You. And You will come to me who asks. I am the Son You love.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}
