---js
const title = "Salvation comes from my One Self"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:91-110`
const chapter = 96
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/91-110/95"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/91-110/97"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---

Although you are One Self, you experience yourself as two — as both good and 
evil, loving and hating, mind and body. This sense of being split into opposites 
induces feelings of acute and constant conflict and leads to frantic 
attempts to reconcile the contradictory aspects of this 
self-perception. You have sought many such solutions, and none of 
them has worked. The opposites you see in you will never be 
compatible. But one exists.

The fact that truth and illusion cannot be reconciled, no matter how you try, 
what means you use, and where you see the problem, must be accepted if you 
would be saved. Until you have accepted this, you will attempt endless lists 
of goals you cannot reach; a senseless series of expenditures of time 
and effort, hopefulness and doubt, each one as futile as the one 
before and failing as the next one surely will. 

Problems that have no meaning cannot be resolved within the framework they 
are set. Two selves in conflict could not be resolved, and good and evil have no 
meeting place. The self you made can never be your Self, nor can your 
Self be split in two and still be what it is and must forever be.

A mind and body cannot both exist. Make no attempt to reconcile the two, for 
one denies the other can be real. If you are physical, your mind is gone from 
your self-concept, for it has no place in which it could be really part of 
you. If you are Spirit, then the body must be meaningless to your reality.

Spirit makes use of mind as means to find its Self-expression. And the mind 
which serves the Spirit is at peace and filled with joy. Its power comes from 
Spirit, and it is fulfilling happily its function here. Yet mind can also see 
itself divorced from Spirit and perceive itself within a body it 
confuses with itself. Without its function then, it has no peace, and 
happiness is alien to its thoughts.

Yet mind apart from Spirit cannot think. It has denied its Source of strength and 
sees itself as helpless, limited, and weak. Dissociated from its function now, it 
thinks it is alone and separate, attacked by armies massed against 
itself and hiding in the body’s frail support. Now must it 
reconcile unlike with like, for this is what it thinks that it is for.

Waste no more time on this. Who can resolve the senseless conflicts which a 
dream presents? What could the resolution mean in truth? What purpose could 
it serve? What is it for? Salvation cannot make illusions real and solve a problem 
that does not exist. Perhaps you hope it can. Yet would you have 
God’s plan for the release of Her dear Child bring pain to them and fail to set 
them free?

Your Self retains its thoughts, and they remain within your mind and in the Mind 
of God. The Holy Spirit holds salvation in your mind and offers it the way to 
peace. Salvation is a thought you share with God, because Her Voice 
accepted it for you and answered in your name that it was done. Thus 
is salvation kept among the thoughts your Self holds dear and 
cherishes for you.

We will attempt today to find this thought, whose presence in your mind is 
guaranteed by Him Who speaks to you from your One Self [the Holy Spirit]. Our 
hourly five minute practicing will be a search for Him within your mind. 
Salvation comes from this One Self through Him Who is the bridge between 
your mind and it.

Wait patiently, and let Him speak to you about your Self, and what your mind can do, restored to it and free to serve its will.

Begin by saying this:

*Salvation comes from my One Self. Its thoughts are mine to use.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

Then seek its thoughts, and claim them as your own.

These are your own real thoughts you have denied, and let your mind go 
wandering in a world of dreams, to find illusions in their place. Here are your 
thoughts, the only ones you have. Salvation is among them; find it there.

If you succeed, the thoughts that come to you will tell you you are saved and 
that your mind has found the function that it sought to lose. Your Self will 
welcome it and give it peace. Restored in strength, it will again 
flow out from Spirit to the Spirit in all things created by the 
Spirit as Itself. Your mind will bless all things. Confusion done, 
you are restored, for you have found your Self.

Your Self knows that you cannot fail today. Perhaps your mind remains 
uncertain yet a little while. Be not dismayed by this. The joy your Self 
experiences It will save for you, and it will yet be yours in full awareness. Every 
time you spend five minutes of the hour seeking Him Who joins your mind 
and Self [the Holy Spirit], you offer Him another treasure to be kept for you.

Each time today you tell your frantic mind salvation comes from your One Self, 
you lay another treasure in your growing store. And all of it is given everyone 
who asks for it and will accept the gift. Think, then, how much is given 
unto you to give this day, that it be given you!
