---js
const title = "My thoughts do not mean anything"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 10
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const pageNumber = 412
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/9"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/11"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---


This idea applies to all the thoughts of which you are aware or become aware in 
the practice periods. The reason the idea is applicable to all of them is that 
they are not your real thoughts. We have made this distinction before 
and will again. You have no basis for comparison as yet. When you do, 
you will have no doubt that what you once believed were your thoughts 
did not mean anything.

This is the second time we have used this kind of idea. The form is only slightly 
different. This time the idea is introduced with “My thoughts” instead 
of “These thoughts” and no link is made overtly with the things around you. The 
emphasis is now on the lack of reality of what you think you think.

This aspect of the correction process began with the idea that the thoughts of 
which you are aware are meaningless, outside rather than within, and then 
stressed their past rather than their present status. Now we are 
emphasising that the presence of these “thoughts” means that you are not 
thinking. This is merely another way of repeating our earlier statement that 
your mind is really a blank. To recognise this is to recognise nothingness when 
you think you see it. As such, it is the prerequisite for vision.

Close your eyes for these exercises and introduce them by repeating the idea for today quite slowly to yourself. Then add:

*This idea will help to release me from all that I now believe.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

The exercises consist, as before, in searching your mind for all the thoughts 
which are available to you, without selection or judgment. Try to avoid 
classification of any kind. In fact, if you find it helpful to do so, 
you might imagine that you are watching an oddly assorted procession 
going by, which has little if any personal meaning to you. As each 
one crosses your mind, say:

*This thought about _____ does not mean anything.\
That thought about _____ does not mean anything.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

Today’s idea can obviously serve for any thought that distresses you at any time. 
In addition, five practice periods are recommended, each involving no 
more than a minute or so of mind searching. It is not recommended 
that this time period be extended, and it should be reduced to half a 
minute or even less if you experience discomfort. Remember, however, 
to repeat the idea slowly before applying it specifically, and also 
to add:

*This idea will help to release me from all that I now believe.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}
