---js
const title = "My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 11
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/10"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/12"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
This is the first idea we have had which is related to a major phase of the 
correction process — the reversal of the thinking of the world. It seems as if the 
world determines what you perceive. Today’s idea introduces the 
concept that your thoughts determine the world you see. Be glad 
indeed to practice the idea in this initial form, for in this idea is 
your release made sure. The key to forgiveness lies in it. 

The practice periods for today’s idea are to be undertaken somewhat differently 
from the previous ones. Begin with eyes closed, and repeat the idea slowly to 
yourself. Then open your eyes and look about, near or far, up or 
down — anywhere. During the minute or so to be spent in using the idea, 
merely repeat it to yourself, being sure to do so without haste and 
with no sense of urgency or effort.

To do these exercises for maximum benefit, the eyes should move from one 
thing to another fairly rapidly since they should not linger on anything in 
particular. The words, however, should be used in an unhurried, even 
leisurely fashion. The introduction to this idea should be practiced 
as casually as possible. It contains the foundation for the peace, 
relaxation, and freedom from worry that we are trying to achieve. On 
concluding the exercises, close your eyes and repeat the idea once 
more, slowly, to yourself.

Three practice periods today will probably be sufficient. However, if there is 
little or no uneasiness and an inclination to do more, as many as five may be 
undertaken. More than this is not recommended.
