---js
const title = "A meaningless world engenders fear"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 13
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/12"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/14"
---

Today’s idea is really another form of the preceding one, except that it is more 
specific as to the emotion aroused. Actually, a meaningless world is impossible. 
Nothing without meaning exists. However, it does not follow that you 
will not think you perceive something that has no meaning. On the 
contrary, you will be particularly likely to think you do perceive it.

Recognition of meaninglessness arouses intense anxiety in all the separated 
ones. It represents a situation in which God and the ego “challenge” 
each other as to whose meaning is to be written in the empty space 
which meaninglessness provides. The ego rushes in frantically to 
establish its own “ideas” there, fearful that the void may otherwise be used to demonstrate its own unreality. And on this alone it is correct.

It is essential, therefore, that you learn to recognise the meaningless and accept 
it without fear. If you are fearful, it is certain that you will endow the world 
with attributes which it does not possess and crowd it with images 
that do not exist. To the ego, illusions are safety devices, as they 
must also be to you who equate yourself with the ego.

The exercises for today, which should be done about three or four times for not 
more than a minute or so at most each time, are to be practiced in a somewhat 
different way from the preceding ones. With eyes closed, repeat 
today’s idea to yourself. Then open your eyes and look about you 
slowly, saying:

*I am looking at a meaningless world.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

Repeat this statement to yourself as you look about. Then close your eyes and 
conclude with:

*A meaningless world engenders fear because I think I am in competition with God.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

You may find it difficult to avoid resistance in one form or another to this 
concluding statement. Whatever form such resistance may take, remind 
yourself that you are really afraid of such a thought because of the “vengeance” 
of the “enemy”. You are not expected to believe the statement at this point and 
will probably try to dismiss it as preposterous. Note carefully, however, any signs 
of overt or covert fear which it may arouse. This is our first attempt 
at stating an explicit cause and effect relationship of a kind which 
you are very inexperienced in recognising. Do not dwell on the concluding 
statement, and try not even to think of it except during the exercise periods. 
That will suffice at present.
