---js
const title = "I see no neutral things"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 17
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/16"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/18"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
This idea is another step in the direction of identifying cause and effect as it 
really operates. You see no neutral things because you have no neutral 
thoughts. It is always the thought that comes first, despite the 
temptation to believe that it is really the other way around. This is 
not the way the world thinks, but you must learn that it is the way 
you think. If it were not so, perception would have no cause and 
would itself be the cause of reality. In view of its highly variable 
nature, this is hardly likely.

In applying today’s idea, say to yourself, with eyes open:

*I see no neutral things because I have no neutral thoughts.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

Then look about you, resting your glance on each thing that catches your eye long enough to say:

*I do not see a neutral _____, because my thoughts about _____ are not neutral.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

For example, you might say:

*I do not see a neutral wall, because my thoughts about walls are not neutral.\
I do not see a neutral body, because my thoughts about bodies are not neutral.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

As usual, it is essential to make no distinction between what you believe to be 
animate or inanimate, pleasant or unpleasant. Regardless of what you may 
believe, you do not see anything which is really alive and really 
joyous. That is because you are unaware as yet of any thoughts which 
are really true and therefore really happy.

Three or four specific practice periods are recommended and no less than three 
are required for maximum benefit even if you experience resistance. However, if 
you do, the length of the practice period may be reduced to less than 
the minute or so which is otherwise recommended.
