---js
const title = "I am not alone in experiencing the effects of my thoughts"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 19
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/18"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/20"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---

The idea for today is obviously the reason why your seeing does not affect you 
alone. You will notice that at times the ideas related to thinking precede those 
related to perceiving, while at other times the order is reversed. 
The reason is that the order does not actually matter. Thinking and 
its results are really simultaneous, for cause and effect are never 
separate.

Today we are again emphasizing the fact that minds are joined. This is rarely a wholly welcome idea at first, since it seems to carry with it an enormous 
sense of responsibility and may even be regarded as an “invasion of privacy”. 
Yet it is a fact that there are no private thoughts. Despite your initial resistance 
to this idea, you will yet understand that it must be true if salvation is possible 
at all. And salvation must be possible because it is the Will of God.

The minute or so of mind searching which today’s exercises require are to be 
undertaken with eyes closed. The idea is to be repeated first, and then the mind 
should be carefully searched for the thoughts it contains at that 
time. As you consider each one, name it in terms of the central 
person or theme it contains and, holding it in your mind as you do 
so, say:

*I am not alone in experiencing the effects of this thought about ___.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

The requirement of as much indiscriminateness as possible in selecting subjects 
for the practice period should be quite familiar to you by now and will no longer 
be repeated each day, although it will occasionally be included as a 
reminder. Do not forget, however, that random selection of subjects 
for all practice periods remains essential throughout. Lack of order 
in this connection will ultimately make the recognition of lack of 
order in miracles meaningful to you.

Apart from the “as needed” application of today’s idea, at least three practice 
periods are required, shortening the length of time involved if 
necessary. Do not attempt more than four. 
