---js
const title = "I am determined to see"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 20
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/19"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/21"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
We have been quite casual about our practice periods thus far. There has been 
virtually no attempt to direct the time for undertaking them, minimal effort has 
been required, and not even active coöperation and interest have been 
asked. This casual approach has been intentional and very carefully 
planned. We have not lost sight of the crucial importance of the 
reversal of your thinking. The salvation of the world depends on it. 
Yet you will not see if you regard yourself as being coerced and if 
you give in to resentment and opposition. 

This is our first attempt to introduce structure. Do not misconstrue it as an 
effort to exert force or pressure. You want salvation. You want to be happy. You 
want peace. You do not have them now because your mind is totally 
undisciplined, and you cannot distinguish between joy and sorrow, 
pleasure and pain, love and fear. You are now learning how to tell 
them apart. And great indeed will be your reward. 

Your decision to see is all that vision requires. What you want is yours. Do not 
mistake the little effort that is asked of you for a sign that our goal is of 
little worth. Can the salvation of the world be a trivial purpose? 
And can the world be saved if you are not? God has one Child, and they are 
the resurrection and the life. Her will is done because all power is 
given them in Heaven and on earth. In your determination to see is 
vision given you.

The exercises for today consist in reminding yourselves throughout the day that 
you want to see. Today’s idea also tacitly implies the recognition that you 
do not see now. Therefore, as you repeat the idea, you are stating 
that you are determined to change your present state for a better 
one, and one you really want.

Repeat today’s idea slowly and positively at least twice an hour today, 
attempting to do so every half hour. Do not be distressed if you forget to do so, 
but make a real effort to remember. The extra repetitions should be 
applied to any situation, person or event which upsets you. You can 
see them differently, and you will. What you desire, you will see. 
Such is the real law of cause and effect as it operates in the 
world.
