---js
const title = "I am determined to see things differently"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 21
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/20"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/22"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
The idea for today is obviously a continuation and extension of the preceding 
one. This time, however, specific mind searching periods are necessary in 
addition to applying the idea to particular situations as they arise. 
Five practice periods are urged, allowing a full minute for each. 

In the practice periods, begin by repeating the idea to yourself. Then close your 
eyes and search your mind carefully for situations past, present or 
anticipated, which arouse anger in you. The anger may take the form 
of any reäction ranging from mild irritation to rage. The degree of 
the emotion you experience does not matter. You will become 
increasingly aware that a slight twinge of annoyance is nothing but a 
veil drawn over intense fury.

Try, therefore, not to let the “little” thoughts of anger escape you in the practice 
periods. Remember that you do not really recognise what arouses anger 
in you, and nothing that you believe in this connection means 
anything. You will probably be tempted to dwell more on some 
situations than on others on the fallacious grounds that they are 
more “obvious”. This is not so. It is merely an example of 
the belief that some forms of attack are more justified than 
others.

As you search your mind for all the forms in which attack thoughts present 
themselves, hold each one in mind and tell yourself:

*I am determined to see _____ [name of person] differently.\
I am determined to see _____ [specify the situation] differently.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

Try to be as specific as possible. You may, for example, focus your anger on a 
particular attribute of a particular person, believing that the anger is limited 
to this aspect. If your perception of the person is suffering from 
this form of distortion, say:

*I am determined to see _____ [specify the attribute] in _____ [name of person] differently.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}
