---js
const title = "These thoughts do not mean anything. They are like the things I see in this room"
const longTitle = "These thoughts do not mean anything. They are like the things I see in this room [on this street, from this window, in this place]."
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 4
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const pageNumber = 406
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/3"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/5"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---

Unlike the preceding ones, these exercises do not begin with the idea for the 
day. In these practice periods, begin with noting the thoughts that are crossing 
your mind for about a minute. Then apply the idea to them. If you are 
already aware of unhappy thoughts, use them as subjects for the idea. 
Do not, however, select only the thoughts you think are 
“bad”. You will find, if you train yourself to look at your thoughts, that they 
represent such a mixture that, in a sense, none of them can be called “good” or 
“bad”. This is why they do not mean anything.

In selecting the subjects for the application of today’s idea, the usual specificity 
is required. Do not be afraid to use “good” thoughts as well
as “bad”. None of them represents your real thoughts, which
are being covered up by them. The “good” ones of which you
are aware are but shadows of what lies beyond, and shadows make sight
difficult. The “bad” ones are blocks to sight and make
seeing impossible. You do not want either.

This is a major exercise and will be repeated from time to time in somewhat 
different form. The aim here is to train you in the first steps toward the goal of 
separating the meaningless from the meaningful. It is a first attempt 
in the long-range purpose of learning to see the meaningless as 
outside you and the meaningful within. It is also the beginning of 
training your mind to recognize what is the same and what is 
different. In using your thoughts for application of the idea for 
today, identify each thought by the central figure or event it 
contains. For example:

*This thought about _____ does not mean anything.\
It is like the things I see in this room [or wherever you are].* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

5You can also use the idea
for a particular thought which you recognize as harmful. This
practice is useful, but is not a substitute for the more random
procedures to be followed for the exercises. Do not, however, examine
your mind for more than a minute or so. You are too inexperienced as
yet to avoid a tendency to become pointlessly preoccupied. Further,
since these exercises are the first of their kind, you may find the
suspension of judgement in connection with thoughts particularly
difficult. Do not repeat these exercises more than three or four
times during the day. We will return to them later.
