---js
const title = "God is my Source. I cannot see apart from Her"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 43
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/42"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/44"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
Perception is not an attribute of God. Hers is the realm of knowledge. Yet She 
has created the Holy Spirit as the Mediator between perception and 
knowledge. Without this link with God, perception would have replaced 
knowledge forever in your minds. With this link with God, perception will 
become so changed and purified that it will lead to knowledge. That is its 
function as the Holy Spirit sees it. Therefore, that is its function in truth.

In God you cannot see. Perception has no function in God and does not exist. 
Yet in salvation, which is the undoing of what never was, perception has a 
mighty purpose. Made by the Child of God for an unholy purpose, it must 
become the means for the restoration of their holiness to their
awareness. Perception has no meaning. Yet does the Holy Spirit give it a 
meaning very close to God’s. Healed perception becomes the means by 
which the Child of God forgives their companion and thus forgives themself.

You cannot see apart from God because you cannot be apart from God. 
Whatever you do, you do in Her because whatever you think, you think with 
Her Mind. If vision is real, and it is real to the extent to which it shares the 
Holy Spirit’s purpose, then you cannot see apart from God.

Three five-minute practice periods are required today, one as early as 
possible and another as late as possible. The third may be undertaken at the 
most convenient and suitable time which circumstances and readiness 
permit. 

At the beginning of these practice periods, repeat the idea to yourself with 
eyes open. Then glance around you for a short time, applying the idea 
specifically to what you see. Four or five subjects for this phase of the 
exercises are sufficient. You might say, for example:

*God is my Source. I cannot see this desk apart from Her.\
God is my Source. I cannot see that picture apart from Her.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

Although this part of the exercise period should be relatively short, be sure 
that you select the subjects for this phase indiscriminately, without 
self-directed inclusion or exclusion.

For the second and longer phase of the exercise period, close your eyes, 
repeat today’s idea again, and then let whatever relevant thoughts occur to 
you add to the idea in your own personal way. Thoughts such as:

*I see through the eyes of forgiveness.\
I see the world as blessed.\
The world can show me myself.\
I see my own thoughts, which are like God’s.*

Any thought related more or less directly to today’s idea is suitable. The 
thoughts need not bear an obvious relationship to the idea, but they should 
not be in opposition to it.

If you should find your mind wandering, if you begin to be aware of thoughts 
which are clearly out of accord with today’s idea, or if you seem to be unable 
to think of anything, open your eyes, repeat the first phase, and then try the 
second phase again. Do not allow any protracted period to occur in which 
you become preöccupied with irrelevant thoughts. Return to the first phase 
of the exercises as often as necessary to prevent this.

In applying today’s idea in the shorter practice periods, the form may vary 
according to the circumstances and situations in which you find yourself 
during the day. When you are with someone else, for example, try to 
remember to tell them silently,

*God is my Source. I cannot see you apart from Her.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

This form is equally applicable to strangers and to those you know well. Try, in 
fact, not to make distinctions of this kind at all.

The idea should also be applied throughout the day to various situations and 
events which may occur, particularly to those which distress you in any way. 
For this kind of application, use this form:

*God is my Source. I cannot see this apart from Her.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

If no particular subject presents itself to your awareness, merely repeat the 
idea in its original form.

Try today not to allow long periods of time to slip by without remembering today’s idea and thus remembering your function.
