---js
const title = "My mind is preöccupied with past thoughts"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:1-50`
const chapter = 8
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/7"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/1-50/9"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
This idea is, of course, the reason why you see only the past. No one really sees 
anything. He sees only his thoughts projected outward. The mind’s 
preöccupation with the past is the cause of the total misconception 
about time from which your seeing suffers. Your mind cannot grasp the 
present, which is the only time there is. It therefore cannot 
understand time and cannot, in fact, understand anything.

The only wholly true thought one can hold about the past is that it is not here. 
To think about it at all is therefore to think about illusions. Very few minds 
have realised what is actually entailed in picturing the past or in anticipating the future. The mind is actually blank when it does this because it is not really thinking about anything.

The purpose of the exercises for today is to begin to train your mind to 
recognise when it is not really thinking at all. While thoughtless “ideas” 
preöccupy your mind, the truth is blocked. Recognising that your mind 
has been merely blank, rather than believing that it is filled with 
real ideas, is the first step to opening the way to vision.

The exercises for today should be done with eyes closed. This is because you 
actually cannot see anything, and it is easier to recognise that, no matter how 
vividly you may picture a thought, you are not seeing anything. With 
as little investment as possible, search your mind for the usual 
minute or so, merely noting the thoughts you find there. Name each 
one by the central figure or theme it contains, and pass on to the 
next. Introduce the practice period by saying:

*I seem to be thinking about _____.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

Then name each of your thoughts specifically. For example:

*I seem to be thinking about [name of person], about [name of object], about 
[name of emotion];* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

and so on, concluding at the end of the mind-searching period with: 

*But my mind is preöccupied with past thoughts.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

This can be done four or five times during the day, unless you find it irritates 
you. If you find it trying, three or four times are sufficient. You might find it 
helpful, however, to include your irritation, or any emotion which 
the idea may induce, in the mind searching itself.
