---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "Review (46–50)"
const volume = "W"
const chapter = 60
const reference = `${volume}-${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const pageNumber = 463
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: pageNumber,
	title,
	parent: "W-rI",
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/r-i/59"
const next = "/workbook/61-80/61"
---
These ideas are for today’s review:

1\. (46) **God is the Love in which I forgive.**

God does not forgive because She has never condemned. The blameless cannot blame, and those who have accepted their innocence see nothing to forgive. Yet forgiveness is the means by which I will recognize my innocence. It is the reflection of God’s Love on earth. It will bring me near enough to Heaven that the Love of God can reach down to me and raise me up to Her.

2\. (47) **God is the strength in which I trust.**

It is not my own strength through which I forgive. It is through the strength of God in me, which I am remembering as I forgive. As I begin to see, I recognize Her reflection on earth. I forgive all things because I feel the stirring of Her strength in me. And I begin to remember the Love I chose to forget, but which has not forgotten me.

3\. (48) **There is nothing to fear.**

How safe the world will look to me when I can see it! It will not look anything like what I imagine I see now. Everyone and everything I see will lean toward me to bless me. I will recognize in everyone my dearest Friend. What could there be to fear in a world that I have forgiven, and that has forgiven me?

4\. (49) **God’s Voice speaks to me all through the day.**

There is not a moment in which God’s Voice ceases to call on my forgiveness to save me. There is not a moment in which Her Voice fails to direct my thoughts, guide my actions and lead my feet. I am walking steadily on toward truth. There is nowhere else I can go, because God’s Voice is the only Voice and the only Guide that has been given to His Son.

5\. (50) **I am sustained by the Love of God.**

As I listen to God’s Voice, I am sustained by Her Love. As I open my eyes, Her Love lights up the world for me to see. As I forgive, Her Love reminds me that Her Son is sinless. And as I look upon the world with the vision She has given me, I remember that I am Her Son.

{% render "acim-org-link", pageNumber: pageNumber, reference: reference  %}

