---js
const prev = "/workbook/91-110/101"
const next = "/workbook/91-110/103"
const title = "I share God’s Will for happiness for me"
const chapter = 102
const reference = `W-${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent: "W-91–110",
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
---
You do not want to suffer.
You may think it buys you something and may still believe a little
that it buys you what you want. Yet this belief is surely shaken now,
at least enough to let you question it and to suspect it really makes
no sense. It has not gone as yet but lacks the roots that once
secured it tightly to the dark and hidden secret places of your
mind.

Today we try to loose its
weakened hold still further. And to realize that pain is purposeless,
without a cause, and with no power to accomplish anything. It cannot
purchase anything at all. It offers nothing and does not exist. And
everything you think it offers you is lacking in existence like
itself. You have been slave to nothing. Be you free today to join the
happy Will of God.

For several days we will
continue to devote our longer practice periods to exercises planned
to help you reach the happiness God's Will has placed in you.
Here is your home, and here your safety is. Here is your peace, and
here there is no fear. Here is salvation. Here is rest at last.

Begin the longer practice
periods today with this acceptance of God's Will for you:

*I share God's Will for
happiness for me,\
And I accept it as my function now.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}

Then seek this function
deep within your mind, for it is there, awaiting but your choice. You
cannot fail to find it when you learn it is your choice and that you
share God's Will.

Be happy, for your only
function here is happiness. You have no need to be less loving to
God's Son than He Whose Love created him as loving as Himself.
Besides these hourly five minute rests, pause frequently today to
tell yourself that you have now accepted happiness as your one
function. And be sure that you are joining with God's Will in
doing this.
