---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "Nothing I see in this room means anything"
const longTitle = "Nothing I see in this room [on this street, from this window, in this place] means anything"
const volume = "W"
const chapter = 1
const reference = `${volume}-${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const pageNumber = 403
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: pageNumber,
	title,
	parent: "W-1–50",
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/in"
const next = "/workbook/1-50/2"
---

Now look slowly around you, and practice applying this idea very specifically to whatever you see:

This table does not mean anything.\
This chair does not mean anything.\
This hand does not mean anything.\
This foot does not mean anything.\
This pen does not mean anything. {.ml-12 .mr-12 .italic}


Then look farther away from your immediate area, and apply the idea to a wider range:

*That door does not mean anything.\
That body does not mean anything.\
That lamp does not mean anything.\
That sign does not mean anything.\
That shadow does not mean anything.* {.ml-12 .mr-12}


Notice that these statements are not arranged in any order, and make no allowance for differences in the kinds of things to which they are applied. That is the purpose of the exercise. The statement should merely be applied to anything you see. As you practice the idea for the day, use it totally indiscriminately. Do not attempt to apply it to everything you see, for these exercises should not become ritualistic. Only be sure that nothing you see is specifically excluded. One thing is like another as far as the application of the idea is concerned.

Each of the first three lessons should not be done more than twice a day each, preferably morning and evening. Nor should they be attempted for more than a minute or so, unless that entails a sense of hurry. A comfortable sense of leisure is essential.

{% render "acim-org-link", pageNumber: pageNumber, reference: reference  %}
