---js
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const title = "The Reïnterpretation of Defences"
const volume = "Tx"
const chapter = "2"
const parent = `${volume}:${chapter}`
const section = "IV"
const reference = `${parent}.${section}`
const headerTitle = `${section}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: 2,
	title: headerTitle,
	parent
}
const prev = "/text/2/i"
const next = "/text/2/iii"
---
When you are afraid of *anything*, you are acknowledging its power to hurt you. Remember that where your heart is, there is your treasure also. This means that you believe in what you *value*. If you are afraid, you are *valuing wrongly.* Human understanding will inevitably value wrongly and, by endowing all human thoughts with equal power, will inevitably *destroy* peace. That is why the Bible speaks of "the peace of God which *passes* (human) understanding”. *This* peace is totally incapable of being shaken by human errors of *any* kind. It denies the ability of *anything* which is not of God to affect you in *any* way.

This is the *proper* use of denial. It is not used to *hide* anything but to *correct* error. It brings *all* error into the light, and since error and darkness are the same, it corrects error automatically. True denial is a powerful protective device. You can and should deny any belief that error can hurt you. This kind of denial is not a concealment device but a correction device. The “right mind” of the mentally healthy *depends* on it. You can do *anything* I ask. I have asked you to perform miracles and have made it clear that miracles are *natural, corrective, healing and universal*. There is nothing good they cannot do, but they cannot be performed in the spirit of doubt.

God and the Souls She created are *completely* dependent on each other. The creation of the Soul has already been perfectly accomplished, but the creation *by* Souls has not. God created Souls so She could depend on them *because* She created them perfectly. She gave them Her peace so they could not be shaken and would be unable to be deceived. Whenever you are afraid, you *are* deceived. Your mind is *not* serving the Soul. This literally starves the Soul by denying its daily bread. God offers *only* mercy. *Your* words should reflect only mercy because that is what you have received, and that is what you should *give.*

Justice is a temporary expedient or an attempt to teach humanity the meaning of mercy. Its judgemental side arises only because humanity is capable of *in*justice if that is what their minds create. You are afraid of God’s Will because you have used your own will, which She created in the likeness of Her own, to *miscreate*. What you do *not* realise is that the mind can miscreate *only* when it is *not* free. An imprisoned mind is not free by definition. It is possessed or held back by *itself*. Its will is therefore limited and is not free to assert itself. The real meaning of “are of one kind”, which was mentioned before, is “are of one mind or will”. When the will of the Family of God and the Mother are one, their perfect accord *is* Heaven.

Denial of error is a powerful defence of truth. You will note that we have been shifting the emphasis from the negative to the positive use of denial. As we have already stated, denial is not a purely negative device; it results in positive miscreation. That is the way the mentally ill *do* employ it. But remember a very early thought of your own — “Never underestimate the power of denial”. In the service of the “right mind”, the denial of *error* frees the mind and reëstablishes the freedom of the will. When the will is *really* free, it *cannot* miscreate because it recognises *only* truth.

False projection arises out of false denial, *not* out of its proper use. My own role in the Atonement is one of *true* projection; I can project to *you* the  affirmation of truth. If you project error to me or to yourself, you are interfering with the process. *My* use of projection, which can also be yours, is *not* based on faulty denial. It *does* involve, however, the very powerful use of the denial of errors. The miracle worker is one who accepts my kind of denial and projection, unites their own inherent abilities to deny and project with mine, and imposes them back on themself and others. This establishes the total *lack* of threat anywhere. Together we can then work for the real time of peace, which is eternal.

The improper use of defences is quite widely recognised, but their proper use had not been sufficiently understood as yet. They can *indeed* create a human’s perception both of themself and of the world. They can distort or correct depending on what you use them *for.*

Denial should be directed only to error, and projection should be reserved only for truth. You should truly give as you have truly received. The Golden Rule can work effectively only on this basis.

Intellectualisation is a term which stems from the mind–brain confusion. “Right-mindedness” is the device which defends the *right* mind and gives it control over the body. “Intellectualisation” implies a split, while “right-mindedness” involves healing.

Withdrawal is properly employed in the service of withdrawing from the meaningless. It is *not* a device for escape, but for consolidation. There *is* only One Mind.

Dissociation is quite similar. You *should* split off or dissociate yourself from error but only in defence of integration.

Detachment is essentially a weaker form of dissociation.

Flight can be undertaken in whatever direction you choose, but note that the concept itself implies flight *from* something. Flight from error is perfectly appropriate.

Distantiation can be properly used as a way of putting distance between yourself and what you *should* fly from.

Regression is an effort to return to your own original state. It can thus be utilised to *restore*, rather than to go back to the *less* mature.

Sublimation should be a redirection of effort to the sublime.

There are many other so-called “dynamic” concepts which are profound errors due essentially to the misuse of defences. Among them is the concept of different levels of aspiration, which actually result from level confusion. However, the main point to be understood from this section is that you can defend truth as well as error and, in fact, much better.

The means are easier to clarify after the value of the goal itself is firmly established. Everyone defends their own treasure. You do not have to tell them to do so because they will do it automatically. The real questions still remain. *What* do you treasure, and *how much* do you treasure it? Once you have learned to consider these two questions and to bring them into *all* your actions as the true criteria for behaviour, I will have little difficulty in clarifying the means. You have not learned to be consistent about this as yet. I have therefore concentrated on showing you that the means *are* available whenever you *ask*. You can, however, save a lot of time if you do not extend this step unduly. The correct focus will shorten it immeasurably.

The Atonement is the *only* defence which cannot be used destructively. That is because, while everyone must eventually join it, it is *not* a device which was generated by humanity. The Atonement *principle* was in effect long before the Atonement itself began. The principle was love, and the Atonement itself was an *act* of love. Acts were not necessary before the separation because the time–space belief did not exist. It was only after the separation that the defence of Atonement and the necessary conditions for its fulfillment were planned.

It became increasingly apparent that all of the defences which humanity can choose to use constructively *or* destructively were not enough to save them. It was therefore decided that they needed a defence which was so splendid that they could not misuse it, although they *could* refuse it. Their choice could not, however, turn it into a weapon of attack, which is the inherent characteristic of all other defences. The Atonement thus becomes the *only* defence which is *not* a two-edged sword.

The Atonement actually began long before the crucifixion. Many Souls offered their efforts on behalf of the separated ones, but they could not withstand the strength of the attack and had to be brought back. Angels came, too, but their protection did not suffice because the separated ones were not interested in peace. They had already split their minds and were bent on further dividing rather than reïntegrating. The levels they introduced into their minds turned against each other, and they established differences, divisions, cleavages, dispersions, and all the other concepts related to the increasing splits which they produced.

Not being in their right minds, they turned their defences from protection to assault and acted literally insanely. It was essential to introduce a split-proof device which could be used *only* to heal, if it were used at all. The Atonement was built into the space–time belief in order to set a limit on the need for the belief and ultimately to make learning complete. The Atonement *is* the final lesson. Learning itself, like the classrooms in which it occurs, is temporary. The ability to learn has no value when change of understanding is no longer necessary. The eternally creative have nothing to learn. Only after the separation was it necessary to direct the creative forces to learning because changed behaviour had become mandatory.

Humanity can learn to improve their behaviour and can also learn to become better and better learners. This serves to bring them into closer and closer accord with the Family of God, but the Family of God itself is a perfect creation, and perfection is *not* a matter of degree. Only while there are different degrees is learning meaningful. The “evolution” of humanity is merely a process by which they proceed from one degree to the next. They correct their previous missteps by stepping forward. This represents a process which is actually incomprehensible in temporal terms because they *return* as they go forward.

The Atonement is the device by which they can free themselves from the past as they go ahead. It *undoes* their past errors, thus making it unnecessary for them to keep retracing their steps without advancing to their return. In this sense the Atonement saves time but, like the miracle which serves it, does *not* abolish it. As long as there is need for Atonement, there is need for time. But the Atonement as a completed plan does have a unique relationship *to* time. Until the Atonement is finished, its various phases will proceed *in* time, but the whole Atonement stands at time’s end. At this point, the bridge of the return has been built.

The Atonement is a *total* commitment. You still think this is associated with loss. This is the same mistake *all* the separated ones make in one way or another. They cannot believe that a defence which cannot attack *is* the best defence. This is what is meant by “the meek shall inherit the earth”. They will literally take it over because of their strength. A two-way defence is inherently weak precisely *because* it has two edges and can turn against the self very unexpectedly. This tendency cannot be controlled *except* by miracles.

The miracle turns the defence of Atonement to the protection of the inner self, which, as it becomes more and more secure, assumes its natural talent of protecting others. The inner self knows itself as both a companion *and* a Child. You know that when defences are disrupted, there is a period of real disorientation accompanied by fear, guilt, and usually vacillations between anxiety and depression. This course is different in that defences are *not* being disrupted but *reïnterpreted*, even though you may experience it as the same thing. In the reïnterpretation of defences, only their use for *attack* is lost. Since this means they can be used only *one* way, they become much stronger and much more dependable. They no longer oppose the Atonement but greatly facilitate it.

The Atonement can only be accepted *within* you. You have perceived it largely as *external* thus far, and that is why your experience of it has been minimal. The reïnterpretation of defences is essential in releasing the *inner* light. Since the separation, humanity’s defences have been used almost entirely to defend themselves *against* the Atonement and thus maintain the separation. They themselves generally see this as a need to protect the *body*. The many body fantasies with which humanity’s minds are engaged arise from the distorted belief that the body can be used as a means for attaining “atonement”.

Perceiving the body as a temple is only the first step in correcting this kind of distortion. It alters part of the misperception but not all of it. It *does* recognise, however, that the concept of Atonement in physical terms is not appropriate. However, the next step is to realise that a temple is not a building at all. Its *real* holiness lies in the *inner* altar around which the building is built. The inappropriate emphasis humanity has put on beautiful church buildings is a sign of their *fear* of Atonement and their unwillingness to reach the altar itself. The *real* beauty of the temple cannot be seen with the physical eye. The Spiritual eye, on the other hand, cannot see the building at all because it has perfect sight. It *can,*however, see the altar with *perfect* clarity.

For perfect effectiveness, the Atonement belongs at the centre of the inner altar, where it undoes the separation and restores the wholeness of the mind. Before the separation, the mind was invulnerable to fear because fear did not exist. Both the separation *and* the fear are miscreations of the mind which must be undone. This is what is meant by “the restoration of the temple”. It does not mean the restoration of the building but the opening of the altar to receive the Atonement. This heals the separation and places *within* humanity the one defence against *all* separation mind-errors which can make them perfectly invulnerable.

The acceptance of the Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time. In fact, both time *and* matter were created for this purpose. This appears to contradict free will because of the inevitability of the final decision. If you review the idea carefully, however, you will realise that this is not true. Everything is limited in some way by the manner of its creation. Free will can temporise and is capable of enormous procrastination. But it cannot depart entirely from its Creator, Who set the limits on its ability to miscreate by virtue of its own *real* purpose.

The misuse of will engenders a situation which in the extreme becomes altogether intolerable. Pain thresholds can be high, but they are not limitless. Eventually everyone begins to recognise, however dimly, that there *must* be a better way. As this recognition becomes more firmly established, it becomes a perceptual turning-point. This ultimately reäwakens the Spiritual eye, simultaneously weakening the investment in physical sight. The alternating investment in the two types or levels of perception is usually experienced as conflict for a long time and can become very acute, but the outcome is as certain as God.

The Spiritual eye literally *cannot see* error and merely looks for Atonement. All the solutions which the physical eyes seek dissolve in its sight. The Spiritual eye, which looks within, recognises immediately that the altar has been defiled and needs to be repaired and protected. Perfectly aware of the *right* defence, It passes over all others, looking past error to truth. Because of the real strength of *Its* vision, It pulls the will into Its service and impels the mind to concur. This reëstablishes the true power of the will and makes it increasingly unable to tolerate delay. The mind then realises with increasing certainty that delay is only a way of increasing unnecessary pain, which it need not tolerate at all. The pain threshold drops accordingly, and the mind becomes increasingly sensitive to what it would once have regarded as very minor intrusions of discomfort.

The Children of God are *entitled* to perfect comfort, which comes from a sense of perfect trust. Until they achieve this, they waste themselves and their true creative powers on useless attempts to make themselves more comfortable by inappropriate means. But the real means is *already* provided and does not involve any effort at all on their part. Their egocentricity usually misperceives this as personally insulting, an interpretation which obviously arises from their misperception of themselves. Egocentricity and communion *cannot* coëxist. Even the terms are contradictory.

The Atonement is the only gift that is worthy of being offered to the altar of God. This is because of the inestimable value of the altar itself. It was created perfect and is entirely worthy of receiving perfection. God *is* lonely without Her Souls, and *they* are lonely without Her. Humanity must learn to perceive the world as a means of *healing* the separation. The Atonement is the *guarantee* that they will ultimately succeed.
