---js
const title = "I trust my companions, who are one with me"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:181-200`
const chapter = 181
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/i"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/182"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
Trusting your companions is
essential to establishing and holding up your faith in your ability
to transcend doubt and lack of sure conviction in yourself. When you
attack a companion, you proclaim that they are limited by what you have
perceived in them. You do not look beyond their errors. Rather, they [errors] are
magnified, becoming blocks to your awareness of the Self that lies
beyond your own mistakes and past their seeming sins as well as
yours.

Perception has a focus. It
is this which gives consistency to what you see. Change but this
focus, and what you behold will change accordingly. Your vision now
will shift to give support to the intent which has replaced the one
you held before. Remove your focus on your companion’s sins, and
you experience the peace that comes from faith in sinlessness. This
faith receives its only sure support from what you see in others past
their sins. For their mistakes, if focused on, are witnesses to sins
in you. And you will not transcend their sight and see the
sinlessness that lies beyond.

Therefore, in practicing today, we first let all such little focuses give way to 
our great need to let our sinlessness become apparent. We instruct our 
minds that it is this we seek and only this, for just a little while. We do not 
care about our future goals, and what we saw an instant previous has no 
concern for us within this interval of time whereïn we practice changing our 
intent. We seek for innocence and nothing else. We seek for it with no 
concern but now.

A major hazard to success
has been involvement with your past and future goals. You have been
quite preöccupied with how extremely different the goals this course
is advocating are from those you held before. And you have also been
dismayed by the depressing and restricting thought that, even if you
should succeed, you will inevitably lose your way again. How could
this matter? For the past is gone, the future but imagined. These
concerns are but defenses against present change of focus in
perception. Nothing more.

We lay these pointless limitations by a little while. We do not look to past 
beliefs, and what we will believe will not intrude upon us now. We enter in the 
time of practicing with one intent — to look upon the sinlessness 
within. We recognise that we have lost this goal if anger blocks our 
way in any form. And if a companion’s sins occur to us, our 
narrowed focus will restrict our sight and turn our eyes upon our own 
mistakes, which we will magnify and call our “sins”.

So, for a little while,
without regard to past or future, should such blocks arise, we will
transcend them with instructions to our minds to change their focus,
as we say:

*It is not this that I would look upon.\
I trust my companions, who are one with me.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}

And we will also use these
thoughts to keep us safe throughout the day. We do not seek for long
range goals. As each obstruction seems to block the vision of our
sinlessness, we seek but for surcease an instant from the misery the
focus upon sin will bring, and uncorrected will remain.

Nor do we ask for
fantasies. For what we seek to look upon is really there. And as our
focus goes beyond mistakes, we will behold a wholly sinless world.
When seeing this is all we want to see, when this is all we seek for
in the name of true perception, are the eyes of Christ inevitably
ours. And the love He feels for us becomes our own as well. This will
become the only thing we see reflected in the world and in
ourselves.

The world which once
proclaimed our sins becomes the proof that we are sinless. And our
love for everyone we look upon attests to our remembrance of the holy
Self Which knows no sin and never could conceive of anything without
Its sinlessness. We seek for this remembrance as we turn our minds to
practicing today. We look neither ahead nor backwards. We look
straight into the present. And we give our trust to the experience we
ask for now. Our sinlessness is but the Will of God. This instant is
our willing one with Hers.
