---js
const title = "I call upon God’s Name and on my own"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:181-200`
const chapter = 183
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/182"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/184"
---
God’s Name is holy, but
no holier than yours. To call upon Her Name is but to call upon your
own. A mother gives their child their name, and thus identifies the child
with them. Their family share shares name, and thus are they united in a
bond to which they turn for their identity. Your Mother’s Name
reminds you who you are, even within a world that does not know; even
though you have not remembered it.

God’s Name cannot be
heard without response, nor said without an echo in the mind which
calls you to remember. Say Her Name, and you invite the angels to
surround the ground on which you stand and sing to you as they spread
out their wings to keep you safe and shelter you from every worldly
thought that would intrude upon your holiness.

Repeat God’s Name and
all the world responds by laying down illusions. Every dream the
world holds dear has suddenly gone by, and where it seemed to stand
you find a star; a miracle of grace. The sick arise, healed of their
sickly thoughts. The blind can see; the deaf can hear; the sorrowful
cast off their mourning, and the tears of pain are dried as happy
laughter comes to bless the world.

Repeat the Name of God and
little names have lost their meaning. No temptation but becomes a
nameless and unwanted thing before God’s Name. Repeat Her Name
and see how easily you will forget the names of all the gods you
value. They have lost the name of god you gave them. They become
anonymous and valueless to you, although before you let the Name of
God replace their little names, you stood before them worshipfully,
naming them as gods.

Repeat the Name of God and
call upon your Self, Whose Name is Hers. Repeat Her Name and all the
tiny, nameless things on earth slip into right perspective. Those who
call upon the Name of God cannot mistake the nameless for the Name,
nor sin for grace, nor bodies for the holy Child of God.

And should you join a
companion as you sit with them in silence and repeat God’s Name
along with them within your quiet minds, you have established there an
altar which reaches to God Herself and to Her Child. Practice but this
today; repeat God’s Name slowly again and still again. Become
oblivious to every name but Hers.

Hear nothing else. Let all
your thoughts become anchored on this. No other words we use except
at the beginning, when we say today’s idea but once. And then
God’s Name becomes our only thought, our only word, the only
thing that occupies our minds, the only wish we have, the only sound
with any meaning, and the only name of everything that we desire to
see; of everything that we would call our own.

Thus do we give an
invitation which can never be refused. And God will come and answer
it Herself. Think not She hears the little prayers of those who call
on Her with names of idols cherished by the world. They cannot reach
Her thus. She cannot hear requests that She be not Herself or that Her
Child receive another name than Hers.

Repeat Her Name, and you acknowledge Her as sole Creator of reality. And you acknowledge also that Her Child is part of Her, creating in Her Name. Sit silently, and let Her Name become the all-encompassing idea which holds your mind completely. Let all thoughts be still except this one. And to all other thoughts respond with this, and see God’s Name replace the thousand little names you gave your thoughts, not realising that there is One Name for all there is and all that there will be.

Today you can achieve a
state in which you will experience the gifts of grace. You can escape
all bondage of the world and give the world the same release you
found. You can remember what the world forgot and offer it your own
remembering. You can accept today the part you play in its salvation
and your own as well, and both can be accomplished perfectly.

Turn to the Name of God
for your release, and it is given you. No prayer but this is
necessary, for it holds them all within it. Words are insignificant
and all requests unneeded when God’s Child calls on their
Mother’s Name. Their Mother’s Thoughts become their own. They make
their claim to all their Mother gave, is giving still, and will forever
give. They call on Her to let all things they thought they made be
nameless now, and in their place the holy Name of God becomes their
judgment of their worthlessness.

All little things are
silent. Little sounds are soundless now. The little things of earth
have disappeared. The universe consists of nothing but the Child of God
who calls upon their Mother. And their Mother’s Voice gives answer in
their Mother’s holy Name. In this eternal, still relationship, in
which communication far transcends all words and yet exceeds in depth
and height whatever words could possibly convey, is peace eternal. In
our Mother’s Name, we would experience this peace today. And in
Her Name it shall be given us.
