---js
const title = "The Name of God is my inheritance"
const volume = "W"
const part = "1"
const parent = `${volume}${part}:181-200`
const chapter = "184"
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const superTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/183"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/181-200/185"
---
You live by symbols. You
have made up names for everything you see. Each one becomes a
separate entity, identified by its own name. By this you carve it out
of unity. By this you designate its special attributes and set it off
from other things by emphasizing space surrounding it. This space you
lay between all things to which you give a different name — all
happenings in terms of place and time, all bodies which are greeted
by a name.

This space you see as
setting off all things from one another is the means by which the
world’s perception is achieved. You see something where nothing
is and see as well nothing where there is unity — a space between all
things, between all things and you. Thus do you think that you have
given life in separation. By this split you think you are established
as a unity which functions with an independent will.

What are these names by
which the world becomes a series of discrete events, of things
un-unified, of bodies kept apart and holding bits of mind as separate
awarenesses? You gave these names to them, establishing perception as
you wished to have perception be. The nameless things were given
names and thus reality was given them as well. For what is named is
given meaning and will then be seen as meaningful, a cause of true
effects with consequence inherent in itself.

This is the way reality is
made by partial vision, purposefully set against the given truth. Its
enemy is wholeness. It conceives of little things and looks upon
them. And a lack of space, a sense of unity or vision which sees
differently become the threats which it must overcome, conflict with,
and deny.

Yet does this other vision
still remain a natural direction for the mind to channel its
perception. It is hard to teach the mind a thousand alien names and
thousands more. Yet you believe this is what learning means — its one
essential goal by which communication is achieved and concepts can be
meaningfully shared.

This is the sum of the
inheritance the world bestows. And everyone who learns to think that
it is so accepts the signs and symbols which assert the world is
real. It is for this they stand. They leave no doubt that what is
named is there. It can be seen, as is anticipated. What denies that
it is true is but illusion, for it is the ultimate reality. To
question it is madness; to accept its presence is the proof of
sanity.

Such is the teaching of the
world. It is a phase of learning everyone who comes must go through.
But the sooner they perceive on what it rests, how questionable are
its premises, how doubtful its results, the sooner do they question
its effects. Learning which stops with what the world would teach
stops short of meaning. In its proper place, it serves but as a
starting point from which another kind of learning can begin, a new
perception can be gained, and all the arbitrary names the world
bestows can be withdrawn as they are raised to doubt.

Think not you made the
world. Illusions, yes! But what is true in earth and Heaven is beyond
your naming. When you call upon a companion, it is to their body that you
make appeal. Their true Identity is hidden from you by what you believe
they really are. Their body makes response to what you call them, for their
mind consents to take the name you give them as their own. And thus their
unity is twice denied, for you perceive them separate from you, and they
accepts this separate name as theirs.

It would indeed be strange if you were asked to go beyond all symbols of the 
world, forgetting them forever; yet were asked to take a teaching function. You 
have need to use the symbols of the world a while. But be you not deceived 
by them as well. They do not stand for anything at all, and in your 
practicing, it is this thought that will release you from them. They 
become but means by which you can communicate in ways the world can 
understand, but which you recognise is not the unity where true 
communication can be found.

Thus what you need are intervals each day in which the learning of the world becomes a transitory phase — a prison house from which you go into the sunlight and forget the darkness. Here you understand the Word, the Name Which God has given you; the One Identity Which all things share; the one acknowledgment of what is true. And then step back to darkness, not because you think it real, but only to proclaim its unreality in terms which still have meaning in the world which darkness rules.

Use all the little names and symbols which delineate the world of darkness. Yet accept them not as your reality. The Holy Spirit uses all of them, but He does not forget creation has One Name, One Meaning, and a single Source Which unifies all things within Itself. Use all the names the world bestows on them but for convenience, yet do not forget they share the Name of God along with you.

God has no name. And yet
Her Name becomes the final lesson that all things are one, and at
this lesson does all learning end. All names are unified; all space
is filled with truth’s reflection. Every gap is closed and
separation healed. The Name of God is the inheritance She gave to
those who chose the teaching of the world to take the place of
Heaven. In our practicing, our purpose is to let our minds accept
what She has given as the answer to the pitiful inheritance you made
as fitting tribute to the Child She loves.

No one can fail who seeks the meaning of the Name of God. Experience must come to supplement the Word. But first you must accept One Name for all reality, and realise the many names you gave its aspects have distorted what you see but have not interfered with truth at all. One Name we bring into our practicing. One Name we use to unify our sight.

And though we use a different name for each awareness of an aspect of God’s Child, we understand that they have but One Name, Which She has given them. It is this Name we use in practicing. And through Its use, all foolish separations disappear which kept us blind. And we are given strength to see beyond them. Now our sight is blessed with blessings we can give as we receive.

*Mother, our Name is Yours. In It we are united with all living things and You Who are their One Creator. What we made and call by many different names is but a shadow we have tried to cast across Your Own Reality. And we are glad and thankful we were wrong. All our mistakes we give to You, that we may be absolved of all effects our errors seemed to have. And we accept the truth You give in place of every one of them. Your Name is our salvation and escape from what we made. Your Name unites us in the Oneness which is our inheritance and peace. Amen.* {.ml-8 .mr-8}
