---js
const title = "(1–5)"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:51-60`
const chapter = 51
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/r-i/i"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/r-i/52"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
The review for today covers the following ideas:

**[1] Nothing I see means anything.**

The reason this is so is that I see nothing, and nothing has no meaning. It is necessary that I recognise this, that I may learn to see. What I think I see now is 
taking the place of vision. I must let it go by realising that it has no meaning 
so that vision may take its place.

**[2] I have given what I see all the meaning it has for me.**

I have judged everything I look upon. And it is this and only this that I see. This is 
not vision. It is merely an illusion of reality, because my judgements have been 
made quite apart from reality. I am willing to recognise the lack of 
validity in my judgements because I want to see. My judgements have 
hurt me, and I do not want to see according to them. 

**[3] I do not understand anything I see.**

How could I understand what I see when I have judged it amiss? What I see is 
the projection of my own errors of thought. I do not understand what I see 
because it is not understandable. There is no sense in trying to understand it. 
But there is every reason to let it go and make room for what can be seen 
and understood and loved. I can exchange what I see now for this 
merely by being willing to do so. Is not this a better choice than 
the one I made before?

**[4] These thoughts do not mean anything.**

The thoughts of which I am aware do not mean anything because I am trying to 
think without God. What I call “my” thoughts are not my real thoughts. My real 
thoughts are the thoughts I think with God. I am not aware of them 
because I have made “my" thoughts to take their place. I am 
willing to recognise that “my” thoughts do not mean 
anything and to let them go. I choose to have them be replaced by 
what they were intended to replace. “My” thoughts are 
meaningless, but all creation lies in the thoughts I think with God.

**[5] I am never upset for the reason I think.**

I am never upset for the reason I think because I am constantly trying to justify 
“my” thoughts. I am constantly trying to make them true. I make all things 
my “enemies” so that my anger is justified and my attacks are warranted. I have not realised how much I have misused everything I see by assigning this role to 
it. I have done this to defend a thought system which has hurt me and which I 
no longer want. I am willing to let it go.
