---js
const title = "(11–15)"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:51-60`
const chapter = 53
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/r-i/52"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/r-i/54"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
Today we will review the following:

**[11] My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world.**

Since the thoughts of which I am aware do not mean anything, the world which 
pictures them can have no meaning. What is producing this world is insane, and 
so is what it produces. Reality is not insane, and I have real thoughts as well as 
insane ones. I can therefore see a real world if I look to my real 
thoughts as my guide for seeing.

**[12] I am upset because I see a meaningless world.**

Insane thoughts are upsetting. They produce a world in which there is no order 
anywhere. Only chaos rules a world which represents chaotic thinking, and 
chaos has no laws. I cannot live in peace in such a world. I am grateful that this 
world is not real and that I need not see it at all unless I choose to 
value it. And I do not choose to value what is totally insane and has 
no meaning.

**[13] A meaningless world engenders fear.**

The totally insane engenders fear because it is completely undependable and 
offers no grounds for trust. Nothing in madness is dependable. It holds out no 
safety and no hope. But such a world is not real. I have given it the illusion 
of reality, and have suffered from my belief in it. Now I choose to 
withdraw this belief and place my trust in reality. In choosing this, 
I will escape all the effects of the world of fear because I am 
acknowledging that it does not exist. 

**[14] God did not create a meaningless world.**

How can a meaningless world exist if God did not create it? She is the Source of 
all meaning, and everything that is real is in Her Mind. It is in my mind too 
because He created it with me. Why should I continue to suffer from the 
effects of my own insane thoughts when the perfection of creation is 
my home? Let me remember the power of my decision and recognise where
I really abide.

**[15] My thoughts are images which I have made.**

Whatever I see reflects my thoughts. It is my thoughts which tell me where I am 
and what I am. The fact that I see a world in which there is suffering and loss 
and death shows me that I am seeing only the representation of my insane 
thoughts and am not allowing my real thoughts to cast their 
beneficent light on what I see. Yet God’s way is sure. The images 
I have made cannot prevail against Her because it is not my will that 
they do so. My will is Hers, and I will place no other gods before Her.
