---js
const title = "(46–50)"
const volume = "W"
const part = 1
const parent = `${volume}${part}:51-60`
const chapter = 60
const reference = `${volume}${part}:${chapter}`
const headerTitle = `Lesson ${chapter}`
const navTitle = `${chapter}. ${title}`
const eleventyNavigation = {
	key: reference,
	order: chapter,
	title,
	parent,
	indexPageTitle: navTitle,
	breadcrumbTitle: navTitle,
	menuTitle: navTitle
}
const prev = "/workbook/p-i/r-i/59"
const next = "/workbook/p-i/61-80/61"
const layout = "mylayout.njk"
---
These ideas are for today’s review:

**[46] God is the Love in which I forgive.**

God does not forgive because She has never condemned. The blameless cannot blame, and those who have accepted their innocence see nothing to forgive. Yet 
forgiveness is the means by which I will recognise my innocence. It is the 
reflection of God’s Love on earth. It will bring me near enough 
to Heaven that the Love of God can reach down to me and raise me to 
my home.

**[47] God is the Strength in which I trust.**

It is not my own strength through which I forgive. It is through the strength of 
God in me, which I am remembering as I forgive. As I begin to see, I recognise 
Her reflection on earth. I forgive all things because I feel the stirring of Her 
strength in me. And I begin to remember the Love I chose to forget, but Which 
has not forgotten me.

**[48] There is nothing to fear.**

How safe the world will look to me when I can see it! It will not look anything 
like what I imagine I see now. Everyone and everything I see will lean toward me 
to bless me. I will recognise in everyone my dearest Friend. What could there 
be to fear in a world which I have forgiven and which has forgiven me?

**[49] God’s Voice speaks to me all through the day.**

There is not a moment in which God’s Voice ceases to call on my forgiveness to 
save me. There is not a moment in which Her Voice fails to direct my thoughts, 
guide my actions, and lead my feet. I am walking steadily on toward truth. 
There is nowhere else I can go because God’s Voice is the only voice and the 
only guide that has been given to Her Child.

**[50] I am sustained by the Love of God.**

As I listen to God’s Voice, I am sustained by Her Love. As I open my eyes, Her 
Love lights up the world for me to see. As I forgive, Her Love reminds me that 
Her Child is sinless. And as I look upon the world with the vision She has given 
me, I remember that I am Her Child.
